Facing a Price War, Uber Bets on Volume: The U.S. operation cuts fares while promising imminent profit. It s becoming a bit of a holiday tradition for Uber: ringing in the new year by lowering fares. Amid a price war with rival Lyft, the ride-hailing leader reduced its rates by 10 percent to 45 percent in 100 cities across North America. In Detroit, Uber drivers  per-mile rate is less than it takes to cover their gas and the depreciation of their cars, according to IRS figures.  It s depressing,  says Bill Scroggins, an Uber driver in Indianapolis.  I m not even sure I want to drive anymore. It feels like I m doing it for free.  This is the third year in a row Uber has discounted fares in January. It calls the cuts seasonal but says they could last indefinitely. Last year rates never rose again in almost a third of cities; only in two did they return to precut prices. Uber has instituted temporary hourly wage guarantees to limit drivers  earnings declines. It s assured Scroggins and other outraged drivers they ll come out ahead by making more trips an hour thanks to increased demand. That may be what Uber is telling itself, too. A few months ago, Chief Executive Officer Travis Kalanick told employees that North American operations would turn a profit in the second quarter of this year. The goal sounds less realistic in light of the price cuts.  Uber has to sacrifice profits for growth,  says Evan Rawley, a professor at Columbia Business School. Uber is also churning through cash a lot faster than Lyft, having said it will spend billions to push its way into China, India, and Southeast Asia. In the first quarter of 2015, Uber lost $385.1 million on $287.3 million in revenue, according to leaked figures published by the Information, a tech news site. And losses are growing: In the third quarter, Uber lost $697 million on $498 million in revenue, according to a person briefed on the numbers. Over the first three quarters of 2015, Uber lost $1.7 billion on $1.2 billion in revenue. For perspective, during Amazon.com s worst-ever four quarters, in 2000, it lost $1.4 billion on $2.8 billion in revenue. CEO Jeff Bezos responded by firing more than 15 percent of his workforce.