Embattled Oculus co-founder Palmer Luckey leaves Facebook: Palmer Luckey is out at Facebook. The Oculus co-founder, who helped kickstart the recent VR craze with a prototype headset built out of his parents  garage, has left the company after a year that heralded the launch of the consumer Oculus Rift but also a number of lawsuits and a pro-Trump meme scandal. Oculus has confirmed the report of Luckey s departure, first spotted by UploadVR, in a statement to TechCrunch that reads about as much as a eulogy as it does a farewell. In an era filled with seemingly countless examples of  bro  founders emerging from top universities and starting companies with their frat brothers, Luckey appeared to be a breath of fresh air. The home-schooled college dropout was a tinkerer who frequented message boards asking for help taking apart and rebuilding game consoles in his parents  garage before expanding to a deep interest in 3D screens and head-mounted displays. This fascination eventually brought him to encounter legendary game developer John Carmack, who helped the young Luckey gain the attention of the gaming community after showcasing one of his VR headset prototypes at a major gaming conference. The excitement led to a wildly successful Kickstarter campaign that later brought the interest of some major investors, including Andreessen Horowitz, Founders Fund and Formation 8. Facebook acquired Oculus in March of 2014 for $2 billion. Luckey has not commented on what exactly he earned from the deal, but Forbes pins his net worth at $730 million. Luckey s departure follows a lengthy period of absence from public view brought about by a Daily Beast piece revealing his involvement and funding of a pro-Trump troll group called Nimble America. News of his support came during a time when very few figures in Silicon Valley were publicly showing support for candidate Trump, the most notable being Peter Thiel, an early investor in Facebook who started the VC firm Founders Fund, which backed Oculus, as well.