Tech s  Frightful 5  Will Dominate Digital Life for Foreseeable Future: There s a little parlor game that people in Silicon Valley like to play. Let s call it, Who s Losing  There are currently four undisputed rulers of the consumer technology industry: Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Google, now a unit of a parent company called Alphabet. And there s one more, Microsoft, whose influence once looked on the wane, but which is now rebounding. So which of these five is losing  A year ago, it was Google that looked to be in a tough spot as its ad business appeared more vulnerable to Facebook s rise. Now, Google is looking up, and it s Apple, hit by rising worries about a slowdown in iPhone sales, that may be headed for some pain. Over the next couple of weeks, as these companies issue earnings that show how they finished 2015, the state of play may shift once more. But don t expect it to shift much. Asking  who s losing   misses a larger truth about how thoroughly Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Google and Microsoft now lord over all that happens in tech. Who s really losing  In the larger picture, none of them   not in comparison with the rest of the tech industry, the rest of the economy and certainly not in the influence each of them holds over our lives.  Indeed, the Frightful Five are so well protected against start-ups that in most situations, the rise of new companies only solidifies their lead. Consider that Netflix hosts its movies on Amazon s cloud, and Google s venture capital arm has a huge investment in Uber. Or consider all the in-app payments that Apple and Google get from their app stores, and all the marketing dollars that Google and Facebook reap from start-ups looking to get you to download their stuff. This gets to the core of the Frightful Five s indomitability. They have each built several enormous technologies that are central to just about everything we do with computers. In tech jargon, they own many of the world s most valuable  platforms    the basic building blocks on which every other business, even would-be competitors, depend.