Social media  buy buttons  are n't off to a great start, but they might still be big: In the past year, there s been a flurry of experimentation with  buy buttons,  a way for social-media sites to allow users to purchase cocktail dresses, throw blankets, candle-making kits and sundry other items from retailers without leaving the social network. Pinterest launched  buyable pins  in June, the same month Instagram released its similar  shop now  feature. Those offerings joined ongoing tests by Facebook and Twitter for similar  functionality. The rush by tech giants and retailers to join the buy-button arms race would suggest that these businesses see money-making potential. And given how much time people spend on social media   an estimated 1 of every 5 minutes spent on a mobile phone in the United States is on Facebook or Instagram, for example   it would be logical to assume that these buy buttons are bringing retailers a blast of online sales. But this holiday season, social channels accounted for 1.8 percent of overall online sales, according to data from Custora, whose software platform is used by many retailers. That s just a tiny sliver of purchases, and it s not even growing: In 2014, Custora found that social media led to 1.9 percent of sales during the same time period. But even if buy buttons have not had an explosive launch, experts say they could prove to be a crucial solution to some of retailers  biggest online shopping problems. Right now, stores are seeing a massive  conversion gap  on mobile devices, meaning that there has been a surge in the number of people browsing sites from mobile devices, but only a small share of them are actually making purchases. In studies, shoppers frequently say they don t buy on their smartphones because it is a hassle to enter payment information and go through a checkout process on the small screen. Buy buttons could also help retailers re-create the idea of the impulse buy for the online era. On the web, a shoppers  journey so often begins with a search in Amazon or Google for a specific item. That has made it hard for retailers to do what they ve long done in stores with elaborate window displays and sweet treats near the checkout counter: Persuade you to buy something eye-catching on a whim.