Upstarts Are Leading the Fintech Movement, and Banks Take Heed: Ryan Craine hates carrying cash and finds writing checks to be a headache. He doesn t do much of either anymore   he mostly uses his smartphone to pay for things. Mr. Craine, a 28-year-old tech support worker in Washington, D.C., uses Apple Pay at the stores and restaurants that accept it. About 20 times a month, he turns to Venmo, a digital wallet for transferring money from one person to another, to pay his share of rent, meals, groceries and utility bills. To refinance his student loans last year, he went to an online lending start-up, Earnest. Mr. Craine s money choices point to the millennial-led shift toward new digital financial services, a change in behavior that threatens to upend the consumer banking industry. The popularity of the services has left the major banks rushing to adapt, even as they have regained their footing after the financial crisis. Americans in their 20s and early 30s, analysts say, offer a glimpse of tomorrow s banking market.  Their relationship with the financial system is very different   it s an electronic one, on their smartphones,  said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody s Analytics.  That can and will be very disruptive to the banking system.  Money is pouring into so-called fintech start-ups. And major technology companies   Apple, Google, Amazon, Facebook and Samsung   are all entering consumer banking, typically starting with digital payment apps. Investment worldwide in start-ups focused on retail banking markets rose to nearly $6.8 billion in 2015, according to CB Insights, a research firm. That is more than triple the $2.2 billion in 2014. In 2010, 40 percent of Americans with bank accounts visited a physical branch once a week, while only 9 percent made a mobile transaction weekly, according to survey research by Javelin Strategy and Research. By 2014, the percentage reporting weekly visits to bank branches fell to 28 percent, while the weekly mobile banking share tripled, to 27 percent.