Alphabet (formerly known as Google) Shakes Up Its Robotics Division:  Google s robotics division has been plagued by low morale and a lack of leadership since the unit s founder left abruptly in 2014. Now Alphabet is cleaning it up. Over the last two months, Alphabet, the new holding company that separated Google from its collection of speculative projects, has reframed the robots effort, moving it from a stand-alone division inside Google to a piece of the X research division. The company has also hired Hans Peter Brondmo, a technology industry veteran who last worked at Nokia, to help with management. A reorganization of the robots group is one of several recent moves inside the X division, which used to be called Google X but was rebranded with the Alphabet reorganization and recently unveiled a new logo. A range of companies, including tech competitors like Amazon and car manufacturers, are signaling their interest in robotics. X has several projects in varying degrees of completion, but has lately been  graduating  them as stand-alone companies or preparing them for such a move. The life sciences group, for example, is now called Verily. X also recently hired an auto industry veteran to lead its self-driving car effort   called Chauffeur internally   and noted that the project was a good candidate to be spun out. Robotics has gone in the opposite direction for reasons that are personal and practical. The division was created in 2013 by Andy Rubin, who led the development of the widely used Android operating system software, and it has been without a leader since Mr. Rubin left in 2014 to start a technology incubator that helps young start-ups turn their ideas into businesses. After starting the robotics division, Mr. Rubin quickly went on a buying spree, purchasing a number of promising companies, including Boston Dynamics, the maker of experimental military robots, and Schaft, an elite group of Japanese roboticists from the University of Tokyo. But while the companies were promising, Mr. Rubin invested in several technologies that had industry observers scratching their heads about his overall direction. Mr. Rubin originally said that the robotics division would be a 10-year moonshot, and when he was in negotiations to acquire companies he talked about the possibility of the driverless Google car rolling up to your house and the Google robot jumping off the back bumper. Google s robotics effort stalled after his departure, going through a variety of leaders, including James Kuffner, a Carnegie Mellon roboticist who has since joined Toyota s research and development laboratory in Palo Alto, and Jonathan Rosenberg, who is a troubleshooter for Larry Page, the Google co-founder who is Alphabet s chief executive. Many in the industry say it is likely to be awhile before companies, Alphabet included, can get through the many technological and regulatory hurdles that stand in the way of robots becoming a huge business.