Intel s Earnings Fall; Despite Exceeding Investor Expectations, slowing data center revenue growth sends shares down 5%: Intel Corp's (INTC.O) strong quarterly profit beat was overshadowed by concerns about slowing revenue growth in its highly profitable data center business, sending its shares down about 5.6 percent in after-market trading. In quarterly earnings reported by Intel on Thursday, the company s revenue was up slightly from the same period last year, but money from data center chips was up markedly. Intel reported that its net income in the fourth quarter of 2015 fell 1 percent to $3.6 billion, or 74 cents a share, from the year-earlier quarter. The company said revenue climbed 1 percent, to $14.9 billion. The net income was above the expectations of Wall Street analysts. They had anticipated 63 cents a share on revenue of $14.8 billion, according to a survey of analysts by Thomson Reuters. For all of 2015, Intel revenue was $55.4 billion, down 1 percent from 2014. Net income was $11.4 billion, down 2 percent. Intel s share price was down about 4 percent in after-hours trading Thursday evening. Intel still gets 59 percent of its revenue from chip sales to PC makers like HP Inc. and Dell, just as Microsoft and other makers of PC software count on the demand for new PCs to sell their products. Now PCs are a tough business: On Tuesday, the market research firm IDC said 276 million PCs were shipped worldwide in 2015, a drop of 10.4 percent from 2014. On Thursday, Intel said data center chip sales, not just to clouds but to older kinds of computing, rose 4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2015. Along with Intel s much smaller businesses in memory and sensor chips for devices, data center chips accounted for than 60 percent of the company s operating profit margin. Keeping up with Moore s Law is increasingly expensive. In 2001 research and development, along with marketing and sales, cost Intel about $8 billion. In 2015, Intel said Thursday, it cost $20.1 billion. Last year, Intel scared many technologists when it announced that a critical next step in delivering on Moore s Law would happen about a year later than expected. The company has since released numerous charts showing this was a temporary blip. If it was more than a blip, developers of those self-driving cars, connected drones and other new devices will also struggle to make improvements. Relax, said Stacy Smith, the chief financial officer of Intel.  Moore s Law is the heartbeat of our company,  he said.  It is the core of our competitive advantage. 