Uber s No-Holds-Barred Expansion Strategy Fizzles in Germany: Uber is rapidly expanding its ride-hailing operations across the globe. But here in this city of 690,000   less than the population of San Francisco, Uber s hometown   the company recently did something unusual: It retreated. In early November, Uber shut its small office in Frankfurt s centuries-old city center after just 18 months of operation, mothballing the online platform that had let people in the city hail rides through a smartphone app. The pullback was spurred in part by drivers like Hasan Kurt, the owner of a local licensed taxi business, who had refused to work with the American service. With more than 20 years of experience as a taxi operator, Mr. Kurt said he disliked how Uber barreled into Frankfurt in early 2014, using primarily unlicensed drivers who had not passed the same exams and health checks required of licensed drivers. That low-cost service, UberPop, which is similar to UberX in the United States, faced legal challenges and was eventually outlawed, last March, by German regulators. Uber then tried to recruit licensed operators like Mr. Kurt to build its service within the letter of the law. But Mr. Kurt would not budge.  It s not part of the German culture to do something like  what Uber did, Mr. Kurt, 45, said over a cup of tea last month during a break in his busy holiday schedule.  We don t like it, the government doesn t like it, and our customers don t like it.  Uber s withdrawal from Frankfurt is just one of a multitude of retreats by the company   now valued at $62.5 billion   across Europe in recent months. In November, Uber also pulled out of Hamburg and D sseldorf after less than two years of operating in each of those German cities. In Amsterdam, Uber recently stopped offering UberPop. And in other European cities, Uber faces the prospect of being beaten back   or at least contained. In Paris and Madrid, Uber has been confronted by often violent opposition from existing taxi operators, while in London, local regulators are mulling changes that could significantly hamper Uber s ambitions there. Uber s aggressive tactics also turned off potential customers like Andreas M ller, a financial analyst who tried the company s Frankfurt service after first using Uber on a business trip in Chicago. Mr. M ller said he liked the convenience of paying through his smartphone, but soon turned against the company after reading that it had continued operating in violation of court orders and did not directly employ its drivers, who are independent contractors.  That might work in the U.S., but that s not how things are done here in Germany,  said Mr. M ller, 37.  Everyone must respect the rules. 