Bill Miller Is Misfiring on Twitter Options After Boon on Amazon: Bill Miller turned to an unusual strategy in mounting his comeback as a top stock picker, buying options on hard-hit technology companies to make leveraged bets with a big impact on his returns. The tactic paid off in 2013 and 2014 as Apple Inc. and Amazon.com Inc. rebounded and helped lift Miller s $2.3 billion Legg Mason Opportunity Trust to a top ranking. The veteran manager is having less success so far with a similar wager on Twitter Inc. that he escalated last quarter, when he owned options allowing him to buy $350 million of the stock -- equal to 15 percent of the fund s assets. The massive wager highlights how some managers are using derivatives to boost profits in mutual funds, tightly regulated investment vehicles that have strict limits on what they can invest in. The technique allows funds to make big wagers with relatively little money up front, though they can lose that money should their bet go wrong. Proponents of the strategy include bond manager Bill Gross, who has said managers need to use leverage to juice up gains in a low-return environment.  You are going to get a much bigger pop to the upside,  said Abraham Goodfriend, founder of Yedid Capital Management, a Miami Beach, Florida-based firm that employs options.  The downside is, if you are wrong you are going to lose all your money  paid for the contracts. Miller bought options on 9 million shares of Twitter in the third quarter, filings show. The drop in value of the options may be one reason the fund lost 4.6 percent over the past month and ranked among the bottom 5 percent of peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, though it s still ahead of 95 percent for 2015. Buying options frees cash to invest elsewhere and allows a fund to bet on a large number of shares with a small down payment, boosting returns if the underlying stock gains. Miller said in an e-mailed response to questions that options occasionally provide more potential reward for the amount of risk being taken than the underlying stocks.  This almost always happens after the stock has gone down significantly, which was the case with  Amazon, Apple and Twitter, he wrote.