With Car-Sharing Service Via, Sharing More Than Just a Ride: The back seat of a Via functions as Joanne Gamel s mobile office. It is where Ms. Gamel, a New York real estate agent, checks email, calls clients and gets listings, all while being chauffeured to appointments in Manhattan. But the best part of a shared car service like Via is the business she does with fellow brokers who are also in the back doing the same thing.  I ve gotten at least 15 different business cards from other agents,  said Ms. Gamel, 35.  It s great for networking, especially if they share their listings or refer a client. I love getting in the car with another agent. And if he has a nice smile, even better.  Inside an UberPool car last month, Tanner Wells met the woman of his dreams. He was riding from a Brooklyn party back to his apartment in Manhattan when she hopped in.  We flirted on the way back to the city,  said Mr. Wells, 37.  She was telling me about some guy she was going to visit. We were talking about goofy stuff. When we got to her stop, she said,  It was nice meeting you,  and got out. The driver turned to me and said,  Why didn t you get her number    The next day Mr. Wells created a  missed connections  post on Craigslist in the hope she would find him. (So far, no answer.) Within the last year, ride-sharing services like Via, Lyft Line and UberPool have exploded onto New York streets as an alternative to pricey taxi rides and unreliable public transportation. Their fleet of S.U.V.s has created a new vision of car-pooling that is luxurious, cost-effective and timesaving. Executives are taking them to work. Parents are taking them on school runs. Packs of young professionals are taking them home after happy hour. Compared with taxis, where rides are on the decline, the price of a shared ride is worth the middle seat and constant pickups. A Via ride costs just over $5 for any two points throughout Manhattan south of 110th Street. But convenience aside, these shared cars are also prime breeding grounds for scandalous, titillating exchanges, where New Yorkers sandwiched together are networking, flirting and sparring in a seemingly consequence-free environment where nearly anything goes.