Facebook Pitches Free Basics to India as Net Neutrality Activists Clash With Facebook: Facebook Chairman Mark Zuckerberg made a personal appeal in one of India s leading newspapers for the country to allow a free Internet service that has stirred controversy and invited questions from regulators. Facebook s proposed Free Basics plan allows customers to access the social network and other services such as education, health care, and employment listings from their phones without a data plan. Yet activists say the program threatens the principles of net neutrality and could change pricing in India for access to different websites. The backlash in India centers on net neutrality, the principle that all Internet websites should be equally accessible. Critics accused the world s largest social networking company of favoring a limited swath of the Internet and excluding rival services. And Facebook s broader Internet.org initiative, including Free Basics, is seen as an effective way to draw more users onto a social network already used by over a billion people. Zuckerberg s Facebook is spending billions of dollars on Internet.org, including projects to deliver the Web to under-served areas via drones, satellites and lasers. The billionaire co-founder has said Facebook or its partners will not make money off this initiative and that the goal is to bring Internet access to the developing world and alleviate poverty.  This isn t about Facebook s commercial interests   there aren t even any ads in the version of Facebook in Free Basics,  Zuckerberg wrote in an opinion piece in the Times of India.  If people lose access to free basic services they will simply lose access to the opportunities offered by the Internet today.  This month, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India asked in a  consultation paper  whether telecommunications service providers should be allowed to charge different pricing for data usage on websites, applications and platforms. The initial comment period for the Indian consultation paper ends Dec. 30. Activists have argued that Free Basics is a  land grab on government property  and that with data rates in India already being low, eventually  everybody will be on the full and open Internet. 