Jet.com s Strategy: Low Prices, Fast Delivery, Happy Workers: You can t accuse Jet.com of timidity. Jet has had some bumps and turns since last summer, when it began selling products as varied as cans of chili, exercise bikes and WowWee personal robots. It changed its business model, dropping a membership fee. It is burning through cash as it continues to scale up, now with more than 900 employees. When it went out to raise more money in the fall, it encountered skepticism. A week before Christmas, it told some customers they would not get their orders in time. Jet said only about 500 shipments out of a million were affected, but such admissions never look good. Yet Marc Lore, Jet s founder and chief executive, says he is not worried. What will separate Jet from Fab and every other failed company, he says, is happiness. In particular, employee happiness.  I m constantly asking people at Jet if they re happy,  he said.  It s really important for me to know that they love working here and think this is the best place they ve ever worked.  Jet supplies its employees with typical start-up perks like free food (weekly lunches, plus Red Bull in the refrigerator and protein powder in the kitchen cabinet), four months of paid parental leave, unlimited vacation and an ownership stake that could one day be worth a lot. But it also has some decidedly less common policies, like standardized, no-negotiation pay packages and worker-friendly employment agreements. Employees can see, every day, how the business is doing.  Transparency  is a big word with Mr. Lore. So is  fairness.  Make people feel good, he says, and they will do their best. Trust them and they will reward you. As the holiday shopping season was beginning in late November, Mr. Lore convened his top executives in Jet s Hoboken, N.J., headquarters for their regular weekly meeting. Here are some of the things that were not on the agenda: warehouse logistics, customer concerns, fine-tuning prices, potential shipping bottlenecks, supplier issues or any of a dozen other topics that could have bedeviled Jet s first December. Instead, the executives discussed the mood and well-being of Jet s employees. The preliminary results of Jet s first  Happiness Pulse  were in. More than 500 employees responded to the survey, which means basically everyone who had been at Jet for at least a month. Two-thirds of them said they viewed Jet favorably. Only 4 percent had a negative opinion.  So only 25 people are basically unhappy,  Mr. Lore said. In an interview a few weeks after Jet s official debut in July, Mr. Lore pulled out his phone and opened an app. It showed that Jet sold $667,200 in gross merchandise value in one day, up 89 percent in a month. Jet had 6,100 first-time buyers the previous day, and 7,800 orders. The company had $153 million in cash. The app is bulging with data, and it is available to investors and the salaried   but not the hourly   employees. Some information is available even to casual visitors. Dominating one wall in the reception area in Hoboken is a board posting constant updates of the day s sales by number and dollar volume. For technology companies, this is radical openness. Also radical is a practice to keep salaries the same for jobs grouped together, a process called  leveling.  This is meant to rule out the common ploy  I got a job offer, can you match it   Extroverts who promote themselves and introverts who keep their heads down are paid the same for jobs of the same value to the company.