Facebook pivots into Stories: In its biggest change in a decade, Facebook is evolving from text and link-focused sharing to the visual communication format it admits  Snapchat has really pioneered.  Starting today, all users will soon have access to the new Facebook Camera feature that lets them overlay special effects on photos and videos. They can then share this content to a Snapchat clone called Facebook Stories that appears above News Feed on mobile and works similarly to Instagram s 24-hour ephemeral slideshows. Users also may share these posts to News Feed, individual friends through the new Facebook Direct private visual messages that disappear once digested or any combination thereof. But really it was the rapid ascent of Instagram Stories to 150 million daily users that he says inspired Facebook to start testing its own Stories in January, and keep expanding it to 12 countries before today s rollout. That s the worst news for Snapchat and best news for Facebook since the world s biggest social network adopted the strategy of copying the competitor that refused its acquisition offer. If Facebook Stories clearly cannibalized News Feed sharing and consumption, it would have to demolish its most popular and lucrative feature to make way for the future where the camera is the new keyboard. And if users saw Facebook, Instagram, Messenger and WhatsApp s Stories features as uncool clones or redundant as a set, it might have had to limit its attack on Snapchat to just one of its core apps. Instead, Facebook can charge in full-speed, attacking Snap from every angle without much penalty to its existing business. And with its enormous engineering and design teams, plus billions in profit each quarter, it can throw more resources at Camera, Stories and Direct visual messaging than Snap can. That product development strength is on display with today s launch, and apparent from Facebook s insistence on showing reporters forthcoming special effects that one-up Snapchat s iconic lenses. Until now, Facebook was just running missile tests and fighting skirmishes on the frontier. Today Facebook declares total war on Snapchat.