Indian Regulators Suspend Facebook s Free Basic Services:  Telecommunications regulators in India have ordered the suspension of Facebook s controversial program to bring free basic Internet services to mobile phone users in the country. Facebook s program, called Free Basics, is one of the signature projects of Internet.org, the company s ambitious plan to bring the Internet to the billions of people around the world who do not have it. Under the initiative, the company works in partnership with local telephone carriers in 35 countries to offer free access to a text-only version of the Facebook social network as well as to certain news, health, job and other services. The idea is to give novices a taste of the Internet and encourage them to buy paid data services when they want to explore the Internet more widely. But critics say that by offering a free package of handpicked services, Facebook and its partners are discouraging people from using competing services and violating the principle of net neutrality, which calls for telecommunications carriers to treat all Internet services equally. In India, for example, the program offers free web searches using Microsoft s Bing service but Google searches incur a charge. Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook s chief executive, has been particularly keen to expand Free Basics in India, which already has more Facebook users than any other country except the United States. Facebook has waged an aggressive advertising campaign in newspapers and on its own social network to build support for the program. But Facebook has encountered a series of setbacks, including intense opposition from net neutrality advocates, the poor marketing efforts and weak network of its Indian phone partner, and skepticism from regulators. One of those regulators, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India, has now told Reliance Communications, Facebook s partner in India, to stop offering Free Basics. The order   which was quietly issued about two weeks ago but leaked to the Indian news media this week   came after Reliance failed to turn over information about the terms and conditions of the service, which it had planned to expand across the country beginning last month.