When a Unicorn Start-Up Stumbles, Its Employees Get Hurt:  On Sept. 4, employees of Good Technology, a mobile security start-up in Sunnyvale, Calif., awoke to discover that their company was being sold to BlackBerry, the mobile device and software maker. Some workers immediately began trying to figure out what it meant for Good to abandon its long-anticipated plan to go public   a move that would have potentially turned their shares in the start-up into gold. They didn t get firm answers that day, but the prospects did not look great. In an investor document about the sale that was distributed to shareholders, employees discovered their Good stock was valued at 44 cents a share, down from $4.32 a year earlier. In contrast, preferred stock owned by Good s venture capitalists was worth almost seven times as much, more than $3 a share. The paperwork also showed that Good s board had turned down an $825 million cash offer just six months earlier, in March. For some employees, it meant that their shares were practically worthless. Even worse, they had paid taxes on the stock based on the higher value. A few nights after the investor document went around, a glass conference room wall at Good s headquarters was broken, according to an incident report. At a subsequent company meeting, Ms. Wyatt told employees that counselors were available to talk to people who needed to vent.  Many employees may not recover what they ve lost,  said Matthew Parks, Good s director of cloud products, who has worked at the company since 2006. His Good shares are now worth a fraction of the six-figure tax bill that he paid for the stock allotted to him before the company was sold. What Good s employees experienced is an example of who loses out when a company backed by venture capital goes south. While plenty of people   including founders, top executives and investors   are involved in the rise of a start-up, those hit the hardest during a company s fall are the rank-and-file employees. Investors and executives generally get protections in a start-up that employees do not. Many investors have preferred stock, a class of shares that can come with a guaranteed payout. Executives frequently get special bonuses so they will not leave during deal talks. In Good s case, the six investors on the board had preferred shares worth a combined $125 million. After the sale to BlackBerry, Ms. Wyatt, who has since left the company, took home $4 million, as well as a $1.9 million severance payment, according to investor documents. In contrast, start-up employees generally own common stock, whose payout comes only after those who hold preferred shares get their money. In Good s case, the board s preferred stock was worth almost the same as all 227 million common shares outstanding. Missing out on the upside of the sale was bad enough, but that wasn t the half of it. Some Good employees actually lost money when BlackBerry bought the company. Good was a unicorn, that is, a private company with a valuation of more than $1 billion. The high valuation increased the paper value of employee shares   and thus the income tax bills levied on their stock when they received the stock grants, or when they bought and sold shares. To pay those taxes, some employees emptied savings accounts and borrowed money. Some of Good s common shareholders have sued most of the board for a breach of fiduciary duty, asserting that directors looked after the interests of only preferred shareholders.