How Intelligent Lighting Is Ushering In The Internet Of Buildings:  The LED revolution is over. To no one s surprise, LEDs have won. Solid-state lighting is changing how we light the world, successfully displacing traditional illumination sources across every part of the global lighting market. Over the next few years, billions of sockets will be in play. This transition has kicked off a new phase of LED adoption   the race to connect every socket. The stakes are high for consumers and vendors alike. A trifecta of qualities   ubiquity, network connectivity and access to power   make intelligent lights a perfect platform on which the promise of the Internet of Things can start to come to life. Behind the scenes, this race to own sockets is really a contest to see who will control the infrastructure of the IoT across our built environment. These intelligent, networked, sensor-laden lights of the near future will form the central nervous system of every smart building. Beyond simple illumination, this  Internet of Buildings  built on top of next-generation lighting systems will forever change the way we interact with the spaces in which we live. In your kids  elementary school, biometric sensors will track students  alertness, subtly shifting spectrum to automatically boost their focus any time it starts to wane. Around the corner at the grocery store, beacons embedded in connected fixtures will track every movement you (or your mobile phone) make   from produce to dairy   beaming coupons at you along the way. Even the lights around your home will be intelligent, learning from and responding to the steady stream of data generated by your wearable devices   using light to help de-stress you after a long day or to perk you up on a cold, dark winter morning. Consumer-facing tech giants   Apple, Google, Amazon   see residential lighting as a key step toward the connected home. Why settle for one or two thermostats or smart toasters when you can gather data from dozens of sensor-enabled lights scattered throughout every house and apartment  For networking companies   Cisco, Qualcomm and their ilk   intelligent lighting is an infrastructure play. Billions of connected lights will need new routing fabric, if only to handle the massive amount of new data traffic they will produce. Even the largest building management systems companies   Siemens, Honeywell, Schneider, Johnson Controls   see the threat posed to their core businesses in HVAC and physical security as the next generation of intelligent buildings are built on top of new lighting networks. Of course, the traditional lighting players   Acuity, Philips, GE   are deeply engaged in this shift, too. But their success is far from guaranteed. The land grab is on. Who will win 