In China's O2O tech, today's 'unicorns' risk becoming tomorrow's 'unicorpses': The Beijing offices of Shequ001, a start-up delivering supermarket goods booked via smartphone, stand almost deserted. Leaflets lie scattered on the floor. Nearly 400 former employees, of a workforce that in March topped 2,000, have joined a social network clamoring to get their unpaid wages. Zhang, who gave only his family name, is one of fewer than three dozen workers left at a company that last year was worth 2 billion yuan ($312 million). "We just wanted to build the market, so we burned through our money," he said, adding he hasn't seen the firm's CEO since March. In China's hottest tech sector, hundreds of "online to offline" (O2O) start-ups like Shequ001, which draw mobile users to local physical stores and services, have failed as skyrocketing valuations deter investors and put the brakes on fresh funding. Many more are expected to fall by the wayside, or be driven into mergers in what executives and investors say is a market bubble. China now boasts 21 'unicorns' - private start-ups valued at over $1 billion - says CB Insights. But now, those inflated valuations - for companies that rarely make any money - are proving too much for investors and new funding is drying up. O2O has found particular traction in China through a combination of widespread smartphone use, a booming mobile payment sector and cheap migrant labor. Entrepreneurs developing O2O apps - for firms offering anything from ride hailing and food delivery to group discounts at shops, restaurants and cinemas - have had easy access to money from technology giants Baidu, Alibaba and Tencent, as well as from venture capitalists, private equity, sovereign wealth funds and state-owned enterprises. Start-ups backed by venture capital raised $9.6 billion in July-September alone, four times the level of a year earlier, according to a KPMG and CB Insights report. "The whole O2O concept is getting too expensive," said Han Weiwen, head of Bain's private equity practice in China. "The valuation is very, very high. There's no traditional way to look at the valuation ... because they don't have revenue." The fierce competition and high spending drives start-ups back to their investors for frequent cash injections, pushing valuations higher. But as the financing roller-coaster has slowed, many start-ups have struggled to afford the subsidized discounts they need to keep users. In O2O, user numbers, whether from inflated demand or not, are a key metric to attracting fresh investment. "This kind of craziness can't go on forever," said Liu Jun, who heads Baidu's efforts in O2O and sits on the board of Uber's China unit. "Enough is enough."