All the Product Reviews Money Can Buy - Online Odd Job Site Fiverr In Focus Over Fake Reviews  : The holiday online shopping season has begun, and that means reading lots of online product reviews. Some of these reviews are helpful, others are not. And many are fakes   raves or pans from people who have never actually used the product. Where do fake reviews come from  In this column, a close-up look at one notable source. Q. Starting in early November, and over the course of a week, the Facebook business page for the company where I work, Long s Jewelers, was hit with 200 one-star reviews. Many of the reviews arrived in a matter of minutes, and all were left without comment. They were bogus reviews that were composed by a freelance spammer, who we believe was paid by one of our competitors. Our average customer rating on our Facebook page fell from 4.8 stars to 2.3 stars. We contacted Facebook, which at first refused to help. I wrote a post on a marketing website, asking for the community s aid, and then released a statement asking for the public s assistance. My pleas went viral enough to compel Facebook to re-examine the issue, and it has since taken down nearly all of the purchased reviews. Through a bit of sleuthing, I found that the reviews came through a website called Fiverr, where people offer to perform odd jobs for $5 and up. Leaving negative reviews is apparently one of those jobs. Fiverr banished the person who wrote these particular sham reviews, but hundreds of other people are still on the site, offering a similar service. Fiverr, which started in 2010, is based in Israel and hosts thousands of people performing tasks in hundreds of categories. The sellers use pseudonyms, for some reason, and most gigs, as they are called, are perfectly legitimate, even delightful.  I will create a 16-line song about anything,  reads a gig by Tylerbarks.  I will write message in beach sand at sunrise,  reads another by Batykefer1. But the Haggler rummaged around Fiverr and quickly found dozens of people offering to post positive reviews to Facebook, different Google sites, the Apple App Store, iTunes and elsewhere. None said anything about trumped-up negative reviews, but fabricated raves are nearly as bad   or perhaps just as misleading, though perhaps not quite as malicious.