Crazy Like a Box: Going Public Can Give Start-Ups Outsize Power: In early 2014, when the cloud storage company Box filed for an initial public offering, many on Wall Street looked at its numbers and laughed. Box s revenues were soaring, but its losses were growing nearly as quickly. It was pouring vast sums into sales and marketing, it had less than a year of cash remaining, and executives did not anticipate making a profit for years. When Box eventually went public this January   after raising another round of private funds to delay its I.P.O.   its stock price briefly surged but has since lost about 40 percent of its value. The company reported on Wednesday that in the third fiscal quarter, it again increased sales, and it projected slightly higher sales in 2016 than it had previously expected. Now, with a stock market valuation of about $1.7 billion, Box is technically in league with the  unicorn  private companies valued at more than a billion dollars   but compared with some of those highflying start-ups, it could easily be mistaken for a pony. Dropbox, a cloud storage competitor that remains private, was valued at about $10 billion in its last fund-raising round. To many in Silicon Valley, Box s inauspicious debut on the stock market, like several other recent tech offerings, serves as a cautionary tale. While floating an I.P.O. was once seen as a rite of passage in Silicon Valley, in the last few years it has become a much bemoaned annoyance to many tech founders. Companies are waiting longer to go public, and thanks to a surge of money from hedge funds and mutual funds looking to get in on the start-up scene, young companies have been given resources to stay private for years on end. Go out to the public markets before you re bulletproof, the thinking goes, and you ll get crushed. No one wants to be the next Etsy, Hortonworks or Box, all of which now trade below their I.P.O. price. But what if Box gets the last laugh  Despite the company s languishing stock price, it s possible that a few years from now, many in the Valley may come to look back on Box s I.P.O. as a masterly timed bit of corporate strategy   an initially painful move that ultimately rewarded investors, improved employees  financial stability, provided executives with independence from unpredictable private investors and pushed the company to adopt a more structured path toward profitability. To understand why, it helps to look at the market for private tech funding, and how it is affected by public valuations. Several unicorns have recently discovered that taking money from mutual funds and other large investors brings surprising public scrutiny. The mutual fund company Fidelity and others must regularly report assessments of their private-company holdings, and lately they ve calculated that start-ups like Snapchat and Dropbox are worth less than what the funds paid for them. Dropbox s valuation, in fact, may now be tied directly to Box s, since large investors look at comparable public companies to help determine the value of their private investments. The same logic applies to employees. If you re an engineer looking to work at a cloud storage company, you could go to Dropbox, where you ll receive stock options at a lofty $10 billion valuation that you ll have a hard time turning into actual money. Or you can go to Box, in which you ll get shares at a relatively reasonable valuation that can also be traded on the public market.