India s Grofers Grabs $120M To Bring Offline Merchants Into The On-Demand World: The race for on-demand delivery services in India is on, and today one of the bigger startups in the market has picked up a large cash injection as it goes for pole position. Grofers, an Instacart-style app that links up with local, offline merchants to delivery groceries, medicine, flowers, and other daily items to customers, has raised $120 million led by new investor SoftBank. The Series C round also included existing backers DST s Apoletto Managers, Tiger Global and Instacart investor Sequoia Capital. Grofers CEO and co-founder Albinder Dhindsa and SoftBank have both directly confirmed the round and investors to TechCrunch. Grofers has been on a fundraising tear to aid its expansion. This is the third round raised by the company this year alone, after earlier rounds of $10 million and $35 million. It brings the total to just under $166 million including an earlier seed round. Japan s Softbank has been pouring hundreds of millions of dollars of investment into Indian startups like Ola, Snapdeal and more, and as part of this round it will take a seat on Grofers  board. The Times of India, which first reported the raise, cites sources that say Grofers now has a post-money valuation of over $300 million. Dhindsa, who cofounded the company with Saurabh Kumar, would not comment on the valuation and said he hadn t even wanted to make this fundraise public.  Very honestly it s just a distraction for the team,  he told TechCrunch.  We re in the middle of trying to build a business.  Today, that business is currently live in 26 cities in India, with some 1.6 million downloads of the mobile apps that are used to order its services. While Grofers looks on the surface like another Instacart clone, there is more going on under the hood. The company originally started as a B2B provider of a supply chain platform it built to help larger brands distribute consumables to smaller merchants, and for those smaller merchants who are almost completely offline to better keep track of their stock.  In India, retail is very unorganised, so we see an opportunity in helping small merchants come online,  Dhindsa says. Still, perhaps to tap into a more mass market prospect, it recently pivoted   or expanded may be the more accurate term   to make its business more consumer-facing, by offering those small, offline businesses an additional service: a way of showing their stock to consumers, who can order and have items delivered. Typically, Grofers offers some features to businesses for free, such as its inventory management system. It then takes a cut on other business software and services, as well as on the delivery, which can range at prices to consumers of between $1 for groceries to $0.40 for medicines (not as cheap sounding in India as it may be in the U.S.). Dhindsa says that the funding will be used to continue growing its supply-chain management development, but also to continue building out its last-mile infrastructure. Today, Grofers uses a mix of its own employees and contractors to deliver goods. Perhaps cleverly, it has chosen not to make delivery the cost-and-profit focus of its whole operation. In fact, it s even considered partnering with others for that aspect of its business.