All In: Why Nikesh Arora Bet $483 Million on SoftBank's Future: It began late one night this year when he and Son were talking about people s tolerance for risk and how it tends to decline over time. Arora took a chance as a kid by leaving India for the U.S. with only $200 in cash, but he had since gone on to a lucrative career. So Son prodded him.  Masa said,  How much risk appetite do you have    Arora says.   Do you believe you can transform SoftBank into a company two, three, five times its size  Now is the time to take the risk.   A week later, Arora came back with a plan to buy 60 billion yen ($483 million at the time) in SoftBank shares, more than any insider purchase by an executive in Japan in at least 12 years, according to Bloomberg data. He would become the company s second-largest individual shareholder and borrow heavily to do it. Arora says investors don t yet appreciate what SoftBank is becoming. The company has been battered recently because of struggles at two major holdings, the China e-commerce powerhouse Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and the U.S. wireless operator Sprint Corp. SoftBank is still valued at less than the public shares it owns, meaning investors deem its operating businesses practically worthless.Arora professes not to be worried. He says investors will come around once the company makes progress in reviving Sprint, lets Alibaba recover and demonstrates that it s more than a Japanese telecommunications company with a spotty investment record. I m very relaxed,  Arora said.  I m here for at least the next 10 years.   Arora was hired last year after a decade at Google Inc. and promoted to president in June. Since then, he has been quietly building his own operation within SoftBank, an investment arm that will take stakes in technology companies around the world. Though SoftBank put money into startups for decades, including a tumultuous foray during the dot-com bust, the effort had dwindled in recent years to what Son called a  hobby  next to his wireless and broadband businesses. Arora is reviving the venture push and making it much more ambitious. He is hiring a team of 15 to 20 outsiders and plans to put about $3 billion into startups each year. Arora s recruits, from companies such as Google and LinkedIn Corp., are hand-picked for the expertise they can offer startups in key areas like personnel, product development and acquisitions. He says SoftBank will hold a competitive advantage by operating at a financial strata few can reach. He plans to make five to 10 investments a year of $100 million to $1 billion. The idea is to back startups that have proven products and need to expand -- the rapid phase of growth Arora helped manage at Google.