Hewlett-Packard ended its life as one public company with a whimper. For the quarter that ended Oct. 30, Hewlett-Packard had net earnings of $1.32 billion, or 73 cents a share. Revenue was $25.7 billion, down 9 percent from a year earlier. The earnings were below Wall Street s expectations, which used nonstandard accounting popular in analyzing tech companies. By the nonstandard formula, HP earned 93 cents a share. Analysts had expected HP to make 96 cents a share, on revenue of $26.4 billion, according to a survey by FactSet. Shares of HP Inc. were down more than 7 percent in after-hours trading Tuesday, while HPE shares were up more than 2 percent. Of the two firms, Ms. Whitman s HPE drew more attention, as she is trying to remake a business that sold things like computer servers and data networking into something with more software and high-value services, which can compete in the era of cloud computing. HP, considered the grandfather of Silicon Valley, began November as two separate entities. One, called HP Inc., sells primarily personal computers and printers. The other, HPE, sells computer hardware, software and services that are used by large companies. Meg Whitman, who was chief executive of the old HP and now runs HPE, split the entity in the hope of increasing efficiency and growth. After months of planning, the two companies began operating separate financial reporting systems in August, although they were legally one company until Oct. 30. Ms. Whitman s strategy now is led by high-value consulting, in particular helping customers in planning, managing, protecting and using hybrid cloud and on-site systems to get and analyze more data, faster. Next week HPE and Microsoft are expected to make a joint announcement that Microsoft is a  preferred partner,  meaning they will make sales calls together and recommend each other to customers. It is a plausible plan, Mr. Bittman said, that only needs revenue and profits.  It s a good series of slides, but we need to see it in action,  he said.