Alphabet Trying to Mix Heft With Start-Up Agility: Alphabet was created to separate Google, the search giant, from the constellation of appendages   the self-driving cars, the pharmaceutical company, the two venture capital funds   that many current and former employees say had made the company too sprawling to manage. The last three months of 2015 were the first quarter of the new holding company s life, and the contours of the organization are starting to fall into place. It has hired new leaders, such as an auto industry veteran who was recently tapped to run the self-driving-car project. It is developing new processes, like an internal system that would have Alphabet companies pay Google for dull but important services like human resources, accounting or access to Google s technological infrastructure, according to people familiar with the matter, something first reported by The Wall Street Journal. These are normal processes in large companies, used to make sure business units have a handle on expenses. But the company is also asking questions about how it might achieve the dream that has eluded so many other big companies: find a way to take advantage of its heft while being nimble like a start-up. Larry Page, Google s co-founder and chief executive of Alphabet, has said that he wants his company to be a home for entrepreneurs. If the Alphabet concept plays out as advertised, company chiefs would have more autonomy to make strategic decisions on such matters as whom they hire and how they spend money, or even to raise their public profiles. But the pitch   in particular to acquisition targets   is also about what they would not have to do. They would not have to worry about building a large server infrastructure for their technology to run on. They would not have to worry about whether to use their money to hire another accountant or another engineer. In the case of more mature companies, they could skip the mounds of paperwork and reporting requirements that come with going public. That broad idea   that entrepreneurs do best when they are focused squarely on new technology rather than distracted by corporate building blocks that every company needs but also take lots of time to build   has taken root across Silicon Valley. It is why, in addition to money, venture capital firms now give their companies access to all kinds of marketing, sales and other services in hopes that their start-ups can more quickly become grown-ups. The first good glimpse of all this will come early next year, when Alphabet, for the first time, will separate Google s search and advertising businesses from Alphabet s more speculative divisions. But it will take months or years for Alphabet to figure out how to create the best of all possible worlds. If such a thing exists.