Square prices shares at 52% discount to last valuation in disappointing turn to long-awaited IPO: sources: Mobile payments company Square Inc priced shares at $9 late on Wednesday, according to people familiar with the matter, further discounting the company's valuation before it begins trading Thursday morning. Square has raised $243.5 million in its Wall Street debut, about $80 million less than expected. The price set on Wednesday puts Square's market capitalization at $2.9 billion, a 52 percent drop from the $6 billion valuation it had earned at its last private funding round. San Francisco-based Square, led by CEO Jack Dorsey, earlier this month set a price range of $11 to $13, well below the $15.46 per-share price of its most recent private financing. The steeper discount to $9 - a 42 percent drop from what investors were willing to pay a year ago - suggests widespread uncertainty about the profitability of the payments industry and the future of Square itself, which has seen slowing revenue growth. "The way that Square was valued as a private company is they were just going to disrupt everything and change payments," said Andrew Chanin, CEO of PureFunds, an exchange-traded fund for mobile payments companies. "And the reality is not that." Compounding concerns is Dorsey's dual role running Twitter Inc., a social media company struggling for a turnaround. Founded in 2009, the company started as a way for small businesses to accept credit card payments through mobile devices. It has evolved to a suite of small business services, relying on partnerships with companies such as Apple and Visa. The valuation cut triggered a ratchet, or protection investors wrote into previous funding rounds, that requires Square to sell several million additional shares. Square will begin trading Thursday on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "SQ". Square is one of the most prominent "unicorns," or private companies valued at $1 billion or more, to plan a public debut this year. Many have held up Square as an example of how fleeting - and at times nonsensical - private market valuations can be. There are more than 140 "unicorns" globally.