Match Prices Its IPO at Bottom of Proposed Range as Tinder CEO Breaks Quiet Period Rule with a Bizarre Interview ("Models Beg Me For Sex") Match has priced its IPO at $12 per share, raising $400 million . The company will begin trading on the Nasdaq tomorrow, under the ticker symbol  MTCH.  The $12 per share is at the bottom of the anticipated $12 to $14 proposed price range and gives the company a market cap of roughly $2.9 billion. Square, which is also going public tomorrow, just priced its IPO at $9, below the $11 to $13 price range. Match owns a group of dating companies, including OkCupid and the infamous Tinder. That particular subsidiary came under fire today after its leader gave a bizarre interview that may have broken SEC-mandated  quiet period  rules. Tinder CEO Sean Rad: Models Beg Me for Sex:, Dick Pics Aren t Cool: Tinder s parent company, the IAC-owned Match Group, is going public tomorrow. As the most attractive and valuable part of the company, it makes sense that Tinder s CEO, Sean Rad, is talking to media outlets to drum up excitement for the IPO. This morning, a fresh Tinder PR disaster dropped in the form of an interview with journalist Charlotte Edwardes in the London Evening Standard. In it, Rad talks about the number of women he s slept with ( Is 20 low  ), confuses the word sapiosexual for sodomy and condemns fame-hungry journalists. It makes sense that Rad would say some really, really stupid things in an interview. Rad was the dude who mishandled a sexual misconduct scandal (and the resulting lawsuit) that led to the exit of co-founder and CMO Justin Mateen last year. Rad stepped down as CEO last November, but got a second chance at the top job after his successor, former Microsoft exec Chris Payne, was canned in the wake of a memorable Twitter meltdown. The interview is very long and there are many different great parts. Below is perhaps the best selection from it (here s another one:  I do not condone penis pictures   that is just not who I am ). I m sure it will inspire a lot of confidence in investors looking to buy Match Group stock tomorrow: He s desperate to impress on me how gallant he is, citing the fact that a  supermodel, someone really, really famous  has been  begging  him for sex  and I ve been like, no.  She s  taunted  him, he says, and  called me a prude.   She s one of the most beautiful women I ve ever seen but it doesn t mean that I want to rip her clothes off and have sex with her. Attraction is nuanced. I ve been attracted to women who are    he pauses    well, who my friends might think are ugly. I don t care if someone is a model. Really. It sounds clich d and almost totally unbelievable for a guy to say this, but it s true. I need an intellectual challenge.  He continues:  Apparently there s a term for someone who gets turned on by intellectual stuff. You know, just talking. What s the word   His face creases with the effort of trying to remember.  I want to say  sodomy   