How Amazon s Long Game Yielded a Retail Juggernaut: Shares of Jeff Bezos s company have doubled in value so far in 2015, pushing Amazon into the world s 10 largest companies by stock market value, where it jockeys for position with General Electric and is far ahead of Walmart. There is a simple explanation for Amazon s rise, and also a second, more complicated one. The simple story involves Amazon Web Services, the company s cloud-computing business, which rents out vast amounts of server space to other companies. Amazon began disclosing A.W.S. s financial performance in April, and the numbers showed that selling server space was a much bigger business than anyone had realized. Deutsche Bank estimates that A.W.S., which is less than a decade old, could soon be worth $160 billion as a stand-alone company. That s more valuable than Intel. Yet the disclosure of A.W.S. s size has obscured a deeper change at Amazon. For years, observers have wondered if Amazon s shopping business   you know, its main business   could ever really work. Investors gave Mr. Bezos enormous leeway to spend billions building out a distribution-center infrastructure, but it remained a semi-open question if the scale and pace of investments would ever pay off. Could this company ever make a whole lot of money selling so much for so little  As we embark upon another holiday shopping season, the answer is becoming clear: Yes, Amazon can make money selling stuff. In the flood of rapturous reviews from stock analysts over the company s earnings report last month, several noted that Amazon s retail operations had reached a  critical scale  or an  inflection point.  They meant that Amazon s enormous investments in infrastructure and logistics have begun to pay off. The company keeps capturing a larger slice of American and even international purchases. It keeps attracting more users to its Prime fast-shipping subscription program, and, albeit slowly, it is beginning to scratch out higher profits from shoppers.