Chip-Only, or Chip-And-Pin  Credit Cards Give Retailers Another Grievance Against Banks: The employee perched on a stepstool by the checkout at Trader Joe s in Union Square in Manhattan is like an air traffic controller: Register 6 for one customer. Register 9 for the next. The routine helps move traffic quickly through the store, where the lines can often snake around the aisles of whole grain cereal, mixed nuts and Fair Trade coffee. Trader Joe s, like many retailers around the country, recently upgraded its payment terminals around the Oct. 1 deadline to accept debit and credit cards with a new security chip. The timing, retailers say, could not be worse. The new terminals are often slower, meaning that the long lines during the busy year-end holiday season will grow longer. The new chip cards are also at the center of a growing dispute that has pitted two of America s most prominent industries   banking and retailing   against each other, and pulled in attorneys general and even the Federal Bureau of Investigation in the process. But the debate involves more than whether consumers will be adequately protected during a season that has been rife with security breaches: The battle could affect the long-simmering war over the billions of dollars in interchange fees that merchants pay to process credit and debit transactions.  That is the crux of the matter,  said David Robertson, publisher of The Nilson Report, a payments industry publication.  The real savings is not about fraud, the real savings is about interchange.  Last year, merchants paid about $61 billion in interchange fees, Mr. Robertson said, compared with about $30 billion in fraud losses. The fight involves new payment cards, issued over the last year, that come with a small square security chip that can help make in-person transactions more secure. Retailers complain that they have spent billions of dollars upgrading their payment terminals to accommodate a system that cuts down only on the fraud shouldered by banks, not merchants. Chip and PIN, long the standard in Europe, would help retailers verify not just the card, but the person using it. Writing to their colleagues in October, two attorneys general sounded a warning bell: The new security chip would not go far enough to make transactions safer. Credit cards needed a PIN, too.  If we continue to settle for weaker standards here, we will continue to pay the price,  wrote Sam Olens, the Republican Georgia attorney general, and George Jepsen, his Democratic counterpart in Connecticut. They urged top prosecutors in other states to sign a separate letter to Visa, MasterCard, JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America and other institutions, pushing them to adopt the chip-and-PIN technology. Banking groups were swift to issue their own statement, saying that merchants had been  spreading an outdated narrative.  In November, a spokesman for Mr. Olens confirmed that he had taken his name off the letter.