For Indian tech startups, 'Winter is here  and why this is a great time to invest':  The horizontal e-commerce Unicorns in India   Flipkart, Snapdeal, Amazon, and adding ShopClues and even a more diversified Paytm   are in a dogfight with no end in sight. It doesn t help that Amazon keeps on growing from strength to strength and getting more aggressive. The online classified players have even bigger issues. Unlike the e-commerce Unicorns, Quikr, OLX, the real estate and car classified firms and other listing-related ones like Zomato have yet to see a serious revenue jump that matches their astounding valuation surge. They all have a serious dogfight coming with no one being particularly dominant in their segment (well Zomato is, but is revenue growth justifying valuation ). Ola and Uber  Ditto, serious dogfight with no end in sight. Ad-tech  Tough for InMobi and Pubmatic to claim resilience and justify high valuations when Facebook and Google want to eat it all. Payments  Paytm has an extraordinary franchise but is it too distracted with other possibilities  Probably the only secure privately-held Unicorn in India is MuSigma   no surprise there as it has real profits and real cash generation. All the rest of the Unicorns are work in process. For early-stage startups, good news and very bad news. The good news is that several Series A funds have lots of dry powder   Accel, Kalaari, Matrix, Nexus, SAIF, Sequoia, etc. will all continue to invest and there will be some fantastic opportunities as the extraordinary customer adoption, benefits of a hyper-connected world and improvements in broadband infrastructure will continue. This is a great time to invest, much like 2008-2011 when many Unicorns of today were created. Many investors have seen such down cycles before and they will not retreat. We also plan to continue investing at our regular rate of one to two deals per quarter. However, Series A investors have to be prepared to fund fewer deals and fund the winners more as Series B/C will not be easy to come by as the  hedgies  boosting up this market and valuations are more or less gone. Indian startups are not a good  trade  anymore! The really bad news is that funding will be available to only a small number of players, as investors get overly conservative. There will be mass closures or scale downs and heavy bleeding for many angel, seed and Series A investors. Capital will vanish for not only the vague and fluffy ideas but even for some good ones as they will get washed away with the tide and sink.