As Bubble Deflates, A Cottage Industry Emerges Around Startup Investors Trying to Cash Out: With Silicon Valley startups staying private longer these days, investors, company executives and rank-and-file employees are increasingly eager to cash out early. In recent weeks, growing fears of a bubble have given insiders even more incentive to sell their shares. Typically company founders try to limit such transactions, but a cottage industry has sprung up to help facilitate the sales on the quiet. Selling shares early isn t entirely new. Before Facebook Inc. went public in 2012, a secondary market emerged that helped early employees and investors cash out to buy houses, cars or build a nest egg. A network of brokers helped facilitate the private deals, and firms such as DST Global Ltd., run by Russian billionaire Yuri Milner, were eager to amass positions in the growing social network. Many of the current crop of promising startups -- among them Palintir, Dropbox, Flipboard -- have reached or surpassed their fifth year of existence. That s when early employees increasingly need the cash, said Mark Dempster, a partner at Founders Circle, which buys officially sanctioned secondary shares. Adding to the anxiousness among those with equity in startups is a drop in valuations for some high-profile companies. Fidelity cut the valuation of Snapchat Inc. by about 25 percent in the third quarter, BlackRock Inc. trimmed the value of storage-company Dropbox Inc. and payments company Square Inc. is seeking an IPO market capitalization that s significantly lower than its valuation as a privately held company. There s no shortage of eager buyers attempting to buy a stake in a hot startup. Some aspiring investors even cold call insiders asking to buy shares. organized sales clearly aren t meeting all the demand to cash out. Many employees and investors are finding other ways to sell shares on their own. Several companies have sprouted up to help find buyers for their shares. EquityZen, based in New York, offers  forward contracts,  where an employee trades the rights to their stock in exchange for cash now. The company sends out regular e-mails offering stock in companies such as Spotify, AppDyanmics and Chartboost. The sellers  get the cash they are looking for,  said Chief Executive Officer Atish Davda said in an interview. More traditional financial institutions also are participating in the secondary market, with mutual funds, hedge funds and asset managers like BlackRock Inc. occasionally buying shares this way. Last month, Nasdaq bought Secondmarket Solutions Inc., the operator of a software platform that helps facilitate the sales of shares in private companies.