After Outcry, Ireland Adjusts Its Corporate Tax Draw: While lawmakers often play down its importance, Ireland s 12.5 percent tax rate (versus 35 percent, before deductions, in the United States) has been a mainstay in the country s decades-long strategy to attract the world s largest companies. With few natural and manufacturing resources, Ireland and its politicians instead have turned to one of the world s lowest corporate tax rates as the country s primary competitive advantage in the global economy. In recent years, other European countries have accused Ireland of acting like an unfair low-tax haven. The European Commission, for example, is investigating whether Ireland gave Apple a preferential tax deal that broke the region s tough state-aid rules. While lawmakers and the company have repeatedly denied wrongdoing, the country is already phasing out the most controversial loopholes. Ireland has since turned to a new inducement: a low tax rate on revenue generated from patents and other intellectual property held in Ireland. Such an incentive   announced last month to be 6.25 percent, or half of the country s corporate tax rate   could be most attractive to patent-heavy industries like technology and pharmaceuticals. But many tax experts say the benefits will be significantly smaller than many had expected, particularly for global tech giants. Because of recent changes to global agreements, Ireland must limit what type of intellectual property can be included in these low-tax structures, known locally as a  knowledge development box.  Such restrictions have been demanded by several European countries, particularly Germany, which raised concerns that Ireland and other countries would turn to such structures to unfairly bring down corporate tax rates. Under international law, Ireland and other countries like Britain and potentially the United States can offer the tax breaks only on intellectual property derived from research carried out in their national borders. Much of the research and development for technology companies is done outside Ireland. So revenue from global patents like those linked to Google s search algorithm, many of which were developed in the United States, will not be eligible for the reduced tax. Still, for regulators who have tried to limit Ireland s tax advantage, the restrictions placed on the country s knowledge development box represent a victory in the global push to close unfair tax loopholes. Some companies in Ireland had lobbied for a wider definition of what type of intellectual property, especially linked to online advertising and search patents moved from other countries to Ireland, could be included in the tax mechanism. Those efforts, though, failed.