Vodafone-Idea merger: Birth of a telecom giant: Facing intense competition from cash-rich Reliance Jio, the Aditya Birla Group and British telecom giant Vodafone Plc on Monday announced the merger of their Indian wireless telephony businesses, creating the largest telecom operator in the country. In a news conference in Mumbai, Vodafone Group Plc Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Vittorio Colao and Aditya Birla Group Chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla said the merger would create a new champion of digital India. It would launch new services soon. As the first step of the merger, Birla-owned Idea Cellular and Vodafone India would merge their operations at a swap ratio of 1:1. Then, Birla s holding companies would buy a 4.9 per cent stake from Vodafone at Rs 110 per share, investing close to Rs 3,900 crore. This will increase Idea s stake to 26 per cent and bring down Vodafone Plc s stake to 45.1 per cent. The Birlas would have the right to acquire another 9.5 per cent stake from Vodafone in the next four years, so that both partners eventually hold an equal stake in the company (about 35.5 per cent each).  India was earlier the jewel in our crown. Now with this merger, we have got a bigger jewel,  Colao said, adding:  This is our Make in India initiative.  At present, Vodafone and Idea together have a customer base of 400 million. Their joint revenue share is likely be 41 per cent, after the merger is complete at the end of 2018. Bharti Airtel, which used to be the biggest market player till now, will be a distant second, with 268 million customers in India. Revenue-wise, too, Airtel would be on the second spot with a market share of 35.6 per cent, along with Telenor. Airtel and Telenor are planning to merge their operations. nvestors of Idea Cellular, however, were not happy with the transaction; its shares closed with a 9.55 per cent fall at Rs 97.6 a share after the deal was announced. Birla said the investors  reaction was a  knee-jerk  one. He was confident that like other Birla group mergers and acquisitions, investors would gain in the long run. Analysts said the consolidation in the telecom sector, triggered by Jio s $25-billion (about Rs 1.7 lakh crore) investment, was likely to continue. 