Baidu s Profit Tops Estimates Even as Spending Rises - Revenue up 36%, Shares pop 7%: Baidu Inc. kept spending under enough control to report a third-quarter profit that topped projections, giving the Chinese Internet search provider more room to boost a share buyback program to $2 billion. Revenue climbed 36 percent to 18.4 billion yuan ($2.89 billion), matching estimates. The board authorized a new block of share repurchases, after completing a $1 billion buyback program in the latest quarter, the Beijing-based company said in statement Friday. Chairman and Founder Robin Li is betting new services including home delivery and online video will drive growth beyond the company s mainstay search advertising business. Baidu said this week its Qunar travel site will form an alliance and swap shares with rival Ctrip.com, the latest move toward consolidation in China s Internet industry. Baidu Inc. kept spending under enough control to report a third-quarter profit that topped projections, giving the Chinese Internet search provider more room to boost a share buyback program to $2 billion. Adjusted earnings per ADS was $1.43 a share, exceeding the $1.28 average of analyst projections, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue climbed 36 percent to 18.4 billion yuan ($2.89 billion), matching estimates. The board authorized a new block of share repurchases, after completing a $1 billion buyback program in the latest quarter, the Beijing-based company said in statement Friday. Chairman and Founder Robin Li is betting new services including home delivery and online video will drive growth beyond the company s mainstay search advertising business. Baidu said this week its Qunar travel site will form an alliance and swap shares with rival Ctrip.com, the latest move toward consolidation in China s Internet industry. Baidu s three major new businesses, video service iQiyi, online commerce site Nuomi and travel site Qunar, remain loss-making, dragging on profit generated by its core search advertising business. By taking a 25 percent stake in Ctrip, in return for 45 percent of Qunar, Baidu intends to cut costs and benefit from reduced competition. That may affect Baidu s revenue.