Apple Profit Is Up 31%, Revenue Up 22% as iPhones Sell Briskly, but Its Forecast Is Muted: Apple on Tuesday turned in another quarter of enviable revenue and profit growth, fueled by sales of the iPhone. But the results raised a perennial question for the world s most valuable company: How can it keep its growth streak alive  The issue was stoked by Apple s muted forecast for its all-important holiday quarter, as well as the unwillingness of Timothy D. Cook, the company s chief executive, to go into detail in an earnings conference call about how Apple plans to rev up sales next year. Over all, Apple posted a profit of $11.1 billion for its fiscal fourth quarter, up 31 percent from a year ago. Revenue was $51.5 billion, up 22 percent from last year. The results exceeded Wall Street estimates. Yet while the performance was bolstered by sales of the iPhone   Apple said that it sold 48 million iPhones in the quarter, up from 39 million in the same period last year   the company was more cautious about sales for the key holiday sales period. Apple projected revenue of $75.5 billion to $77.5 billion for the end-of-year quarter. While the sheer numbers are huge, the low end of the forecast fell below Wall Street estimates and would amount to anemic growth of less than 4 percent from a year ago. The last time Apple s quarterly sales fell below 4 percent was in mid-2013. New Products: Apple is going into 2016 with a full slate of refreshed products. In late September, the company introduced its newest iPhone models, the 6s and 6s Plus. It also announced a larger iPad, the iPad Pro, and will begin shipping a new Apple TV this week. IPad Struggles: While the iPhone continues to grow, the iPad has been facing declines. For the fiscal fourth quarter, Apple said iPad sales dropped 20 percent from a year ago, making it the seventh consecutive quarter that sales of the tablet have slipped. The company is increasingly positioning the iPad as a business device. Apple Watch: The company did not break out sales of the Apple Watch, which debuted in April. But the category called  other products    which includes the watch   posted $3 billion in revenue in the quarter, up from $2.6 billion in the previous quarter, which was the first quarter that included sales of the device. Ben Bajarin, an analyst at Creative Strategies, said that the numbers for the  other  category were in line with his expectations, and implied somewhere between 3.5 million and four million watches were sold over the quarter. China: One of Apple s fastest-growing markets   China   continued to grow. Sales in the region that Apple calls Greater China jumped 99 percent in the quarter to $12.5 billion. The region remained the company s second-largest market after the Americas, accounting for 24 percent of sales in the quarter, compared with 13.7 percent a year ago. Investors have been scrutinizing the China business given that the country has been cutting interest rates to shore up a slowing economy. Apple Pay: Apple said it has partnered with American Express to bring its Apple Pay mobile payments service to global markets. Chief Executive Tim Cook said the credit card company will bring the service to customers in Australia and Canada, then expand to Spain, Hong Kong and Singapore in 2016.