Alibaba Revenue Up 32%, Sends Shares up 4%; Cloud Computing Revenue Doubles Y/Y; Overseas Sales at 8%; GMV growth sinks to lowest in 3 years: China's Alibaba is squeezing more money from online shopping than expected, beating analyst forecasts for revenue growth, as mobile shopping grows. The company wrung out higher-than-expected revenue growth of 32 percent year-on-year, even as gross merchandise volume (GMV), the total value of goods transacted across its platforms, sank to its slowest annual growth rate in more than three years. Alibaba's U.S.-listed shares closed about 4 percent higher on Tuesday, after rising as much as 8.4 percent during market hours. Alibaba is trying to replace decelerating volume growth in online shopping with new kinds of online buying, mirrored in its latest investments. For instance, Alibaba invested $4.6 billion in Suning during the quarter. It also offered $3.5 billion to become sole owner of Youku Tudou, known as China's YouTube. Online video users in the country are beginning to cough up money for high-quality online streaming services. But the majority of Alibaba's revenue still comes from China's online shoppers buying from domestic businesses, a business driven by growth in GMV. For the latest quarter, growth came mostly from Tmall, an Amazon-like website allowing businesses to sell to customers, where GMV rose 56 percent. Gains at Taobao, more akin to eBay and by far the company's biggest contributor to GMV, showed signs of slowing at just 15 percent. Alibaba's revenue rose to $3.49 billion in the three months ended Sept. 30. Net income attributable to shareholders reached $3.58 billion, or $1.40 per share. International Expansion: The proportion of revenue Alibaba gets from abroad reached 8 percent, compared with 9 percent in the previous quarter. Co-founder Jack Ma has said he wants half of the company s sales to originate outside China. The company named Michael Evans, a former Goldman Sachs  partner, as president in August to spearhead a global expansion into regions such as Russia and Brazil. The company is also looking to make forays into Italy, France, Australia and New Zealand, Evans said in October. Cloud Business: Revenue from cloud computing more than doubled from a year earlier. The e-commerce giant is betting on Internet-based computing and big data to boost growth for the next decade thanks to demand for processing and storage from governments, finance and online gaming companies. AliCloud could account for more than $1 billion of Alibaba s revenue by 2018