Even As Oracle and AWS Circle Each Other, Oracle Will Not Build a Giant Cloud System Like AWS: Counter to the expectations of many industry watchers, Oracle, the world s largest maker of software for businesses, is not planning a global computing system to rival Amazon Web Services or Microsoft Azure, the other big global cloud companies. While it has built out a network of 20 data centers, largely filled with Oracle equipment, it now plans to go after customers by offering faster updates of its core products, new ways of customizing applications and a much younger, retooled sales force.  We ve made our investments,  Mark Hurd, co-chief executive of Oracle, said in an interview. Compared with A.W.S., he said,  the place we like is one of higher profit margins.  Besides applications, Amazon sells raw computing and data storage, which are generally lower-margin businesses. Oracle is expected Tuesday to announce better security inside its cloud because of changes from its proprietary hardware, but won t sell access to the machines on their own. Oracle s better margins, Mr. Hurd said, will come from selling large-scale software that can be customized by its buyers to suit local markets and products. He hopes to lower his sales costs and bring in younger companies with salespeople recruited straight from college and given crash courses in selling Oracle cloud products. In the last four years, he said, the company has hired 1,000 graduates a year.  We train them in products, sales skills and processes,  said Mr. Hurd.  They re selling within a year, with a much lower cost of sales.  Oracle s sales force, some 30,000 people globally, is considered among the most aggressive and highly compensated in the tech business. Now, Mr. Hurd said,  we have to do some branding  to entice the kind of smaller companies and start-ups the new sales team is chasing. The ease of modification and the faster sales force illustrate how, while still far apart, Oracle and A.W.S. are becoming more like each other as cloud computing goes mainstream. For its part, a few weeks ago A.W.S. dropped all pretense and made a direct bid for Oracle s customers. A.W.S. even put up a thinly disguised picture of Oracle founder and executive chairman Larry Ellison.