Uber Engineer Barred From Work on Key Self-Driving Technology, Judge Says: Uber, the ride-hailing company, sidestepped a full shutdown of its self-driving car efforts on Monday when a federal judge stopped short of issuing a temporary injunction against the program. But the court mandated that Anthony Levandowski, a star engineer leading the program, be prohibited from working on a critical component of autonomous vehicle technology for the duration of the litigation, a setback that could hamper Uber s development efforts. The decision was in a case that has underlined the increasingly bitter fight between Uber and Waymo, the self-driving car business that operates under Google s parent company. The companies have been competing in the development of autonomous vehicles, which many consider the future of transportation. The outcome of the case may affect who wins or loses in the technology, which has also drawn other tech companies, automakers and start-ups. In the ruling on Monday, Judge William Alsup of Federal District Court in San Francisco, said,  Waymo L.L.C. has shown compelling evidence that its former star engineer, Anthony Levandowski, downloaded over 14,000 confidential files from Waymo immediately before leaving his employment there.  He added,  Significantly, the evidence indicates that, during the acquisition, Uber likely knew or at least should have known that Levandowski had taken and retained possession of Waymo s confidential files.  Judge Alsup also ruled that Waymo significantly  overreached  when it asked for protection on more than 120 patents it called trade secrets.  General approaches dictated by well-known principles of physics, however, are not  secret,  since they consist essentially of general engineering principles that are simply part of the intellectual equipment of technical employees,  Judge Alsup wrote. He directed Uber to produce a timeline of the events leading to Mr. Levandowski s hiring, including all oral and written discussions between the parties about an important self-driving technology called lidar, short for light detection and ranging, which Mr. Levandowski has been accused of stealing. The judge also ordered Uber to do what it could to ensure the return of the files to Waymo, including the possibility of terminating Mr. Levandowski s employment at Uber.Despite the judge s ruling on Mr. Levandowski, Uber also had cause for celebration because its self-driving research program was not shut down, which would have been a more serious blow.