Microsoft Goes Upscale With Fifth Avenue Flagship Store: Most of the luxury brands on the storefronts of Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, one of the world s most famous shopping thoroughfares, seem to belong together, like the notes of a song. There are Tiffany & Company, Gucci, Armani, Valentino, Rolex and   cue the sound of a record needle sliding off vinyl   Microsoft  Yes, the company that brought us Windows and Office is opening a store on the street that brought us $5,000 handbags and $20,000 watches. The doors of the striking new flagship Microsoft Store will open to the public on Monday. It s an expensive gamble on a retail strategy that is still a long way from paying off. It does not take a detective to see that the foot traffic is often light at the Microsoft stores the company has opened   the Fifth Avenue store will be its 113th   over the last six years. That s a contrast with the jamborees usually found over at Apple s stores, inevitably a few blocks away or across the mall from Microsoft s electronics boutiques. I got a preview tour of the store last week. It s clear the building renovation cost a fortune, though Microsoft executives wouldn t say how much. The company gutted a building from the 1930s that was previously a Fendi store, replacing all but the top of its facade with huge sheets of glass. Walking into the store, what hits you first are the Microsoft devices arrayed on large open tables in the middle of the room. There is a collection of Surface Books, the company s first laptop, which has received positive reviews and goes on sale Monday. Nearby is the Surface Pro 4, the latest version of the company s popular tablet computer. An Xbox set up in the front corner of the store   an area Microsoft calls the living room   lets people play Halo 5: Guardians, the science-fiction shooter game that goes on sale Tuesday. Microsoft s chief executive, Satya Nadella, is showing more patience with the company s stores than he has with other unfulfilled initiatives begun under his predecessor, Steven A. Ballmer. Mr. Nadella shut down a Microsoft group that made television shows for people with Xboxes, and he cut the staff working on Microsoft s phone hardware to a fraction of its former size. Why do Microsoft Stores survive  The bricks-and-mortar alternatives for showing new Microsoft products in their best light are not great. The number of electronics stores has dwindled, leaving just one giant in the United States, Best Buy. And while the stores of wireless carriers are good for putting smartphones in front of the public, category-bending tablets and laptops often require explanations from more-trained specialists.