Square, the Mobile Payments Company, Discloses I.P.O. Plans - Lost $77M on revenues of $561M in H1 2015: Jack Dorsey is about to get even busier. On Wednesday, one of the companies Mr. Dorsey runs, Square, the mobile payments start-up, made its initial public offering prospectus public, indicating it is close to a road show to sell stock to investors. The move follows an action-packed 10 days for the technology executive, who was named permanent chief of Twitter last week and who on Tuesday announced that he was laying off 8 percent of the staff at the social networking company as he tries to attract more users to the service. The disclosure of Square s I.P.O. prospectus is set to quicken the pace for Mr. Dorsey. While the filing revealed that Square s revenue jumped to $850 million last year, up 54 percent from a year earlier, losses increased to $154 million in 2014, more than in 2013. For the first six months of this year, Square lost $77 million on revenue of $561 million. That means Mr. Dorsey, 38, will need to sell a money-losing Square to investors when I.P.O.s   including recent technology offerings like Pure Storage   have been met with a lackluster reception. In addition, Mr. Dorsey faces questions about whether he can juggle his chief executive roles at Twitter and Square. Taking a company public and navigating the turnaround of another are each tall tasks on their own. Some critics have said Square s core business does not make enough money to justify the lofty $6 billion valuation that it received from private investors. While Square said that more than two million merchants accepted five or more Square transactions last year, the company s revenue is not as large as some other technology giants that it is often mentioned alongside. The filing also presented a rocky picture of a key partnership with Starbucks, the global coffee giant, which the two companies entered into in 2012. Square ended up losing tens of millions of dollars on the countless credit card transactions it processed for Starbucks customers, the filing showed. The deal, which is expected to wind down in 2016, will winnow away a significant portion of Square s transaction volume.