Behind the Failure of Leap Transit s Gentrified Buses in San Francisco: Leap, which raised $2.5 million from some of the industry s best-known investors, charged riders $6 to get across San Francisco, nearly three times the cost of riding a city bus. Its primary draw was luxury. Each bus had a wood-trimmed interior outfitted with black leather seats, individual USB ports and Wi-Fi. The buses also offered a steady stream of high-end snacks, sold via app. The luxury vehicles were up for auction; Leap filed for bankruptcy in July. The end for Leap apparently came so suddenly that its founders didn t have time to remove much from the vehicles. Inside each bus, sitting in an out-of-the-way parking lot near Oakland, Calif., was a state registration form pinned to the wall, a bundle of iPhone and HDMI cables, and a display case full of snacks. Among the choices were packages of That s It   vegan, gluten-free, non-G.M.O. fruit bars   and organic, paleo Simple Squares. Leap is one of at least several dozen tech companies that have failed this year. Their deaths are illuminating; dead start-ups show us which investors  theories are bogus, which technologies aren t ready for prime time and which common ways founders overextend themselves. In particular, Leap s death suggests one emerging cause of start-up doom, a problem that also did in the anonymous social network Secret: too close an association with Silicon Valley s tech-bro sensibilities. Start-up deaths often go unstudied. Silicon Valley stands out for the way it embraces failure, and it s true that the  We Failed!  start-up post-mortem note has become a staple on publishing sites like Medium. By the time of its bankruptcy auction earlier this month, which attracted only a handful of bidders, Leap was all but forgotten. In its bankruptcy filing, Leap reported that it made nearly $21,000 in the two months during which it offered service. That turned out to be less than two of its buses   which officials told me could no longer start   fetched at auction: One sold for $11,100, and another for $12,100.