Twitter to Cut More Than 300 Jobs: Twitter announced on Tuesday that it was laying off as many as 336 employees, or 8 percent of its work force, to streamline and refocus as it tries to find ways to attract new users to its social network.  We are moving forward with a restructuring of our work force so we can put our company on a stronger path to grow,  Mr. Dorsey, one of the founders of Twitter, wrote in an email to employees.  We feel strongly that engineering will move much faster with a smaller and nimbler team, while remaining the biggest percentage of our work force. And the rest of the organization will be streamlined in parallel.  The cuts, one of the first major moves by Mr. Dorsey since he was named chief executive, received a mixed reaction from Wall Street. News of the impending layoffs leaked out Friday, after the market closed, and Twitter s shares fell nearly 7 percent on Monday. After the staff cuts were announced Tuesday morning, the stock rebounded briefly and ended the day at $29.06, up 1 percent.  Cutting 8 percent of your work force is a little jarring,  said Mark Mahaney, an Internet analyst at RBC Capital Markets.  You don t normally see job cuts at this early stage for growth companies unless there is something materially going wrong with the operations or the strategy.  Twitter s work force has grown quickly in recent years, through acquisitions and hiring. As of June 30, the company, which is based in San Francisco, had about 4,100 employees, an increase of more than 800 people, or 24 percent, from the previous June. Twitter said Tuesday that revenue and adjusted profit for the third quarter would meet or exceed previous forecasts. The high end of the company s previous forecast predicted revenue of $560 million and adjusted earnings of $115 million. The company said it would provide  generous  exit packages to those who are losing their jobs, including 60 days of pay for San Francisco employees, which is required under a provision of state law governing large layoffs. Twitter intends to take a pretax charge of $5 million to $15 million in the fourth quarter in connection with the layoffs. Demand for software engineers is intense in Silicon Valley, and former Twitter employees were quick to reach out to those laid off and urge them to join them at other companies.