Amazon plays a long game with AWS: Amazon Web Services doesn t just want to dominate the global business in selling computing online. It also wants to be the rarest thing of all in the technology industry: a long-lived company. Its strategy hinges on an unprecedented level of automation in computer programming and maintenance, coupled with offering new products and services at a rate none of the old-guard companies seem able to match. The idea seems to be to dominate not so much by the traditional  vendor lock-in  of hooking customers on proprietary technology, but by making itself the center of the styles and habits of cloud computing. At least some of its customers seem to think that will work. On Wednesday, Jim Fowler, the chief information officer of General Electric, said,  A.W.S. will be the trusted partner that will run our company s information technology for the next 140 years.  That s how long G.E., founded by Thomas Edison, has been around. Mr. Fowler was talking at the annual A.W.S. conference, during a session in which the company indirectly made the case that it would go after all of the existing customers of some of the biggest technology companies around. Among other offerings, A.W.S. plans to send customers machines that will extract an Oracle database, say, and send it to A.W.S. to be transformed to a cheaper cloud product. G.E. had at one point thought of building its own cloud, but it went with Amazon in part because of this know-how. A.W.S. also introduced a range of new technology products, including automated creation of mobile software applications, automated large- and small-scale data analysis systems in real time, and ways of building software that can be managed easily across the globe from a single location. There were, of course, also ways to make these parts fit together, mostly in automated forms that configured and managed most of the underlying technology. To work with it all, last week A.W.S. published a 56-page manual on how to build and run software in A.W.S.  Cloud is the new normal,  Werner Vogels, Amazon s chief technology officer, said to a roomful of several thousand software engineers on Thursday.  This is how you will build your applications.  Certainly, a good part of A.W.S. software is open source, which means it could be used elsewhere, and companies like Microsoft and Google also have big clouds. But neither of them, nor IBM, which also wants the cloud business, created more than 500 new features and services last year, as A.W.S. did. That raises an interesting prospect. A.W.S. does not have a lot of the proprietary technology or onerous contracts that have traditionally held captive the customers of big enterprise software companies. Amazon may be creating a kind of casual lock-in of its own: All this automation, features and standardization of practices could mean that in several years most young engineers will know how to work in the A.W.S. system, but none other. That s not exactly a hostage situation, but it would hold companies.