Microsoft s Mission to Reignite PC Sector May Be Taking Hold: Shipments of personal computers fell nearly 11 percent last quarter, to the shock of almost no one. Sales have been declining for so long   14 consecutive quarters   that it is becoming harder to remember a time when PCs ruled the tech world. Yet despite all that movement   or maybe because of it   something curious has emerged in recent months: optimism.  Initiatives like Surface and Surface Book have helped the industry wake up and say,  We ve got to make the industry cool and sexy again,    said Frank Azor, executive director and general manager of Dell s XPS line of PCs. The stated reason that Microsoft got into the PC hardware business three years ago, with the original Surface, was not to put PC companies out of business. The company said the goal was to better illustrate the capabilities of its software, providing devices that would inspire PC makers to be more innovative. Analysts and industry executives say the strategy may be starting to work. Dell, which still sells millions of PCs, announced on Thursday several new machines that run Windows 10, a new Microsoft operating system. One of them, the XPS 12, is similar to Microsoft s Surface Book, a  two-in-one  device that combines the keyboard of a traditional laptop with a touch-sensing screen that can be detached for use as a tablet. The Microsoft event on Tuesday, where the Surface Book was introduced, generated the kind of buzz from the tech press that s normally reserved for an Apple event. Apple itself generated discussion last month about whether it has begun to imitate Microsoft by announcing a new big-screen tablet with a stylus, the iPad Pro. The Surface has been available with a big screen and a stylus for some time.  It remains to be seen whether these efforts will result in more sales. Microsoft has seen terrific growth in its Surface business, which has jumped to $3.6 billion in annual sales from nothing three years ago. But most other big PC makers have not been able to get customers to spend on PCs as they once did. PC owners are holding on to their machines longer, making do with systems that are good enough for their needs. At the same time, they are relying on mobile devices for more of their computing tasks. On Thursday, IDC, the technology research firm, said that global PC shipments declined 10.8 percent in the third quarter from the same period a year ago, slightly worse than the research firm had expected. (Another research firm, Gartner, had pegged the decline at 7.7 percent.)