Valuation Shell Game: Silicon Valley s Dirty Secret: You want to know the dirty, little secret of Silicon Valley  It s called the 409A valuation. Here s how the process works: In order to attract and to retain high-powered employees, high-flying tech companies want to issue them common stock or options. To do so and to comply with Internal Revenue Service rules, they need to obtain an independent, third-party valuation of the company. This type of valuation allows hot, privately owned technology companies   like Uber, Airbnb or Nextdoor   to issue common stock or stock options to employees at a low price and, at the same time, or nearly the same time, sell preferred stock to outside investors at a price that is often three or four times higher. It s also a way for company founders to control the market for the stock of their private companies while rewarding themselves and key employees with cheap shares that seem instantly worth a lot more than the price at which they were issued. Failure to comply with section 409A of the tax code would make employees receiving the stock grants personally liable for immediate taxation on the excess value embedded in the stock or options, plus a 20 percent penalty tax. The valuations also give the founders of technology companies extraordinary control over the market for the private sale of company stock. Whether employees realize it or not, the stock the company grants to them often explicitly prevents its sale to anyone, or in any private secondary market, without the express written consent of the founder, the chief executive or the board of directors. Obviously this becomes a problem when an employee wants to sell his or her private stock. And who wouldn t, if for instance, the stock is issued to employees at a $500 million valuation, and then sold to outside investors at a $1.5 billion valuation. This is often the point where the founder steps in and says, sorry, no sale, or at least not at the higher valuation. Selling implies the person is no longer a true believer in the company or in its mission. This dynamic falls especially hard on early investors who are not company employees, those so-called  series A  or  series B  venture-capital investors who would like to sell at the higher valuation but can do so only with the founder s or chief executive s permission and only at the sanctioned valuation. Employees looking to diversify their wealth also often feel frustrated.