Twitter s Next Hail Mary, Project Lightning, Has Arrived..is Uncannily Similar to Snapchat's Live Stories: Just 24 hours after Jack Dorsey officially took over as the new CEO, Twitter is finally rolling out Project Lightning, the multimedia update it has aggressively pitched for months, to resuscitate growth and get Twitter back on track with Wall Street. In many ways, Lightning is Twitter s most important product update ever. The new product, which Twitter is now calling Moments, is the kind of product that will shape how Dorsey is remembered in his third stint at the company he helped create. A Moment is a group of tweets stitched together around a specific topic, such as the Super Bowl or a breaking news event. These Moments are curated by Twitter, or Twitter partners like BuzzFeed and the New York Times, and primarily exist within a new tab inside the Twitter app, although they can be shared as links within tweets as well. Moments tend to be multimedia-heavy, with lots of photo and video tweets included, although that isn t necessarily a requirement. Unlike your Twitter timeline, in which tweets are typically read in reverse chronological order, Moments are constructed in the same way you d read a book   with a beginning, middle and end. If you re familiar with Snapchat s Live Stories feature, which have become very popular with its users, you ll notice some striking similarities. (Very striking.) The purpose of the product is twofold. For starters, it s a way for Twitter to play to its strengths by creating more content and engagement around live events, an area where Twitter truly does dominate other social platforms, including Facebook. When you follow a Moment, Twitter will temporarily insert tweets about that topic into your feed from people you don t actually follow; as soon as the event is over, you ll stop seeing tweets from those people. There s no easy way to follow a bunch of people talking about a breaking news event, for example, so Twitter is trying to do that for you. Twitter is also looking for ways to entice new users, and believes Moments may serve as the bait. Twitter can be underwhelming when you first sign up, admits Madhu Muthukumar, product manager for Moments. But if you can immediately follow a Moment   and all the important people contributing to that event   it s easier to find interesting people and feel like you re part of the conversation right away, he added.