Data Transfer Pact Between U.S. and Europe Is Ruled Invalid: Europe s highest court on Tuesday struck down an international agreement that allowed companies to move digital information like people s web search histories and social media updates between the European Union and the United States. The decision left the international operations of companies like Google and Facebook in a sort of legal limbo even as their services continued working as usual. The ruling, by the European Court of Justice, said the so-called safe harbor agreement was flawed because it allowed American government authorities to gain routine access to Europeans  online information. The court said leaks from Edward J. Snowden, the former contractor for the National Security Agency, made it clear that American intelligence agencies had almost unfettered access to the data, infringing on Europeans  rights to privacy. The court said data protection regulators in each of the European Union s 28 countries should have oversight over how companies collect and use online information of their countries  citizens. European countries have widely varying stances toward privacy. Data protection advocates hailed the ruling. Industry executives and trade groups, though, said the decision left a huge amount of uncertainty for big companies, many of which rely on the easy flow of data for lucrative businesses like online advertising. They called on the European Commission to complete a new safe harbor agreement with the United States, a deal that has been negotiated for more than two years and could limit the fallout from the court s decision. Some European officials and many of the big technology companies, including Facebook and Microsoft, tried to play down the impact of the ruling. The companies kept their services running, saying that other agreements with the European Union should provide an adequate legal foundation. But those other agreements are now expected to be examined and questioned by some of Europe s national privacy watchdogs. The potential inquiries could make it hard for companies to transfer Europeans  information overseas under the current data arrangements. And the ruling appeared to leave smaller companies with fewer legal resources vulnerable to potential privacy violations.  We can t assume that anything is now safe,  Brian Hengesbaugh, a privacy lawyer with Baker & McKenzie in Chicago who helped to negotiate the original safe harbor agreement.  The ruling is so sweepingly broad that any mechanism used to transfer data from Europe could be under threat. 