Instacart, Now $400 Million Richer, Tries to Be Thrifty: Apoorva Mehta is thinking a lot about bottle deposits. Recycling fees vary by state and container size, but until recently, Mehta s online grocery delivery startup Instacart Inc. hadn t paid much attention to what it was charging customers purchasing soda or beer. Then they did the math and discovered that this oversight was costing the company on average 35 cents a delivery. Instacart now charges the correct amount for bottle deposits. In the last year, it made a similar adjustment to how it accounts for local sales taxes, which has saved another 20 cents per delivery, according to the company. The penny-pinching is part of a new strategy designed to show investors that Instacart can rise above the pile of on-demand startups that have bled venture capital. Enough VCs were convinced by Mehta s pitch to contribute $400 million for Instacart s latest round of funding. With the additional cash, the investment increases the company s valuation to $3.4 billion, an unlikely harvest in a down market.  This is not what I ll call  funny math  here,  said Mehta, the co-founder and chief executive officer.  One of the things we ve had as a result of this round is a lot of scrutiny from the smartest investors in the world, looking at a lot of these numbers in detail.  Mehta wants everyone to know that unlike a typical startup newly awash in cash, Instacart is going to spend it very carefully. The San Francisco-based company, which pays workers to pick up and deliver groceries from local supermarkets, is also eager to demonstrate that it s taking in more revenue while spending less. Instacart cut its burn rate by more than half in the past year, Mehta said. In addition to the bottle deposit and sales tax adjustments, the company focused on driving down  time per delivery,  a metric that s the source of some obsession within the walls of Instacart. For inspiration, the company filmed its most efficient shoppers to learn what they did differently and then taught those lessons to new recruits. Quicker deliveries translate not only into happier customers but cost savings resulting from higher productivity.