 Yelp for People  App Founder Says Peeple Won t Be  Shamed Into Submission :  An entrepreneur said she wanted to create an app that would allow people to be reviewed, the way restaurants or vacation spots are, and you ll never believe what happened next. (Unless you re familiar with the social web s climate of Internet shaming. Then you probably can.) In what was perhaps a speed record for attempting to dismantle a product that doesn t exist yet, angry people circulated an online petition to prevent the project, called Peeple, from ever making it to an app store. Sleuths at the website Snopes, known for debunking rumors, tried to figure out if the whole thing was an elaborate ruse. And the woman behind the app, Julia Cordray, insisted that Peeple was the real thing, and that it would proceed despite receiving a viral heap of negative reviews. Though it appeared to be offline Monday, a cached version of Peeple s website offered people the chance to sign up for beta testing of the app. Illustrations showed users with number and star ratings, in the manner of Yelp, and comments under a user s profile. On Monday, Ms. Cordray did not say whether a prototype was available or whether it had been made available to journalists. Though it appeared to be offline Monday, a cached version of Peeple s website offered people the chance to sign up for beta testing of the app. Illustrations showed users with number and star ratings, in the manner of Yelp, and comments under a user s profile. On Monday, Ms. Cordray did not say whether a prototype was available or whether it had been made available to journalists.  The cached site s terms also say that users cannot remove themselves from the app. In the LinkedIn post, Ms. Cordray attempted to scale back some earlier assertions about the concept of Peeple:  You will NOT be on our platform without your explicit permission,  she wrote.  There is no 48 hour waiting period to remove negative comments. There is no way to even make negative comments.  In that case, the app would fall in line with a plethora of platforms that offer users the ability to opt in to the service and then review one another, making the app more like LinkedIn than Yelp. Comparisons have also been drawn to Lulu, an app that allows women to rate prospective male dates using hashtags like #motherslovehim (positive) or #longnails (negative). Lulu has seen its share of criticism, receiving complaints from men who say they don t want to be rated without their permission.