The  Oh, Shit!  Moment When Growth Stops: Most high-growth businesses stare down periods when growth unexpectedly slows down or stops altogether. At some point, that stomach-churning moment has visited the leadership of most of the companies I ve advised. We also faced it at OpenTable, eBay and Reel.com when I was managing them. And it has reputedly happened to a number of today s mightiest Internet businesses as well, including the likes of Amazon and Facebook. CEOs at high-tech businesses work hard to keep as much growth going for as long as possible. Investors   both public and private   tend to value growth over everything else during most investment cycles, and the recent cycle has been no exception. Growth is where all the action is, and to where all the money flows. The reason for this is that the majority of returns are driven by a handful of companies that  break out.  And a business can t get big enough to break out if it isn t growing. Entrepreneurs  reactions to these moments fall into one of two extremes: There is the preternaturally calm CEO who resolves to watch the metrics closely to see if they change; he or she is concerned that a hint of panic will cause the rest of the team to panic, so they  Zen it out  as best they can. Then there is the CEO who freaks out, setting off alarm bells that reverberate throughout the entire building and continue ringing in every single employee s ears. Which approach do I advocate  The freak-out, of course! Why  Because the unexpected slowing of growth in a  growth  business presents an existential risk to the company. Growth rates over a company s history tend to move only one way over time (down); even in hypergrowth companies, growth rates tend to fall to earth   which is why I ve referred to this effect as  gravity.  Once gravity takes hold, it s very hard to reaccelerate the growth of the business. Slowing growth portends a strong possibility that the company will never again experience prior levels of growth going forward. There are precious few examples of this happening on a sustained basis: Amazon accomplished it during 2010-2011, contributing to its value today. We accomplished this during my tenure at OpenTable, leading to a fourfold growth in market cap over six quarters. But growth will never resume magically. If CEOs can figure out what exactly happened to cause that slowdown, it presents them with the opportunity to try to correct what went wrong.