Google Virtual-Reality System Aims to Enliven As Tech Majors Eye Education: As part of a class last year on  Romeo and Juliet,  Jennie Choi, an English teacher at Mariano Azuela Elementary School in Chicago, took her sixth-grade students on a tour of Verona, the Italian city where Shakespeare s play transpires. During the excursion, Ms. Choi asked her class to examine the variegated facade of a centuries-old building, known on tourist maps as  Juliet s House,  where the family that may have been the inspiration for the fictional heroine once lived. She also encouraged her sixth graders to scrutinize the deteriorated tomb where they could imagine the Juliet character had died. But the students did not have to leave their Chicago classroom to take in the play s Italian backdrop. Instead, as part of a pilot project for a new Google virtual field trip system for schools, Ms. Choi s students tried out virtual-reality viewers   composed of cardboard and a cellphone   while their teacher used an app to guide them through stereoscopic vistas of the Italian town. The introduction of Google s virtual-reality kits for classrooms highlights the growing importance of the education sector to major technology companies   and the mounting competition among them. In 2006, for instance, Google introduced Apps for Education, a bundle of cloud-based email, calendar and document-sharing products available free to schools. Now, 45 million students and teachers around the world use the apps, the company said. Microsoft has also developed a substantial school audience for its email, search, calendar, Skype and other software. This month, Microsoft introduced several new products for education customers, including a note-taking app called OneNote Class Notebook. But the advent of Google Expeditions is also indicative of an industry strategy shift. Some leading tech companies have recently made a decision to focus on designing products specifically for classroom use, rather than simply modifying their existing consumer or enterprise products and then marketing them to schools. Last year, Google introduced Classroom, a free app that teachers can use to create, collect and comment on student assignments. This month, Facebook announced that company engineers were working with Summit Public Schools in California on software to customize learning to individual students. Google engineers similarly worked with teachers to develop virtual-reality field trips based on course curriculums