Google may have missed a big chance to become a major smartphone maker: Since its October launch, Google's Pixel phone has received rave reviews, and Google recently confirmed to the Android-focused publication Android Pit that it will release a new Pixel this year. Yet despite these successes, it seems the phone may be experiencing some trouble on the sales front and may have missed an opportunity to capitalize on competitors' missteps. While Google doesn't break out its numbers for Pixel units sold, analysts estimate that customers bought around 552,000 Pixel phones by the end of 2016, according to USA Today. In comparison, Apple sold 78 million iPhones between late September and December. Samsung sold 2.5 million Galaxy Note 7 phones between its mid-August launch and its October discontinuation. To put that in perspective, Google's market share for smartphones shipped is now less than one percent worldwide   as compared to Samsung's 18 percent and Apple's 18.2 percent   said Ramon Llamas, a research manager for the analysis firm International Data Corporation. On paper, it seemed like it should have been a slam dunk for Google given the Pixel's Google branding, Samsung's Note 7 problems, and criticism of Apple's latest iPhones not being that revolutionary. The Pixel is a solid phone thanks to its quality construction, pure version of Android and special Google features such as the voice-controlled Assistant. The big problem for Pixel is that only one carrier, Verizon, sells the phone, said Jeff Moore of research firm Wave7 Research. While users can get it directly from Google for full price of $649   and take it to another carrier if they want   that's not an option that a majority of wireless customers think about. Compounding the availability issue, Moore said, is that stores are having trouble keeping the phones in stock. That's a good sign for Google in terms of demand, but also a bad sign for the company in terms of being able to capitalize on that demand, he said.