India Replaces China as Next Big Frontier for U.S. Tech Companies: Two years ago, India s rise as a digital nation was hard to imagine. Internet penetration was modest, mobile phone networks were glacially slow, and smartphones were a blip in a sea of basic phones. Since 2013, however, the number of smartphone users in India has ballooned and will reach 168 million this year, the research firm eMarketer predicts, with 277 million Internet users in India expected over all. India already conducts more mobile searches on Google than any country besides the United States. Yet  we are barely scratching the surface of availability of Internet to the masses,  said Amit Singhal, Google s senior vice president in charge of search, who emigrated from India to the United States 25 years ago.  India and its 1.25 billion residents have become the hottest growth opportunity   the new China   for American Internet companies. Blocked from China itself or frustrated by the onerous demands of its government, companies like Facebook, Google and Twitter, as well as start-ups and investors, see India as the next best thing. The increasing appeal of India, now the world s fastest growing major economy, was underscored in recent days. During a meeting in Seattle on Wednesday with American technology executives, China s president, Xi Jinping, was unwavering on his government s tough Internet policies. India s prime minister, Narendra Modi, on the other hand, was on a charm offensive during his own American tour. After a stop in New York City, he headed to Silicon Valley, where he visited Tesla and attended a dinner with tech chieftains like Satya Nadella of Microsoft and Sundar Pichai of Google. On Sunday, Mr. Modi participated in a town hall discussion with Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook s chief executive. He also planned to drop by Google and Stanford University, mingle with entrepreneurs and address a sold-out arena of 18,000 people in San Jose, Calif., before heading back to New York to meet with President Obama on Monday.  For India to keep making progress, it needs to be a leader online,  Mr. Modi said during the Facebook event. He acknowledged that tech companies like Facebook were not connecting people out of pure altruism, but he told Mr. Zuckerberg,  I hope this will not just be something to enhance your company s bank balance.  The overall message to Silicon Valley from Mr. Modi, who posts regularly on Twitter and Facebook: Help India become an Internet powerhouse.