The Risk of a Billion-Dollar Valuation in Silicon Valley: Deep inside a Silicon Valley unicorn lurks a time bomb. It is a peculiarity of venture capital financing that the engine that pumps money into a promising start-up can later cause the same start-up to self-destruct. With all the hoopla and debate over sky-high valuations of technology start-ups, it is worth keeping in mind that the switch that helps to drive those surging valuations can also be turned off. The  bomb,  so to speak, is known as a liquidation preference. In every financing round, the money that a venture capital firm invests is not given freely. The firm and the start-up will negotiate terms of protection. Negotiable terms include voting rights, seats on the start-up s board and assurances that a future fund-raising won t unduly dilute the venture capital firms  stake. The liquidation preference is among the most important of these protections. This feature provides that the venture capital firm s investment will be repaid before the founders and employees are rewarded. If the firm has particular leverage, it can negotiate an even more protective form, known as the senior liquidation preference, which provides that the firm will be paid not only before the common stockholders but also before anyone else who bought preferred stock in earlier rounds. These provisions apply in a sale but not in an initial public offering of stock. The idea is to ensure that even if the investment does not perform well, the venture investor will still get back its initial money. According to a recent survey by the law firm Fenwick & West of 37 unicorns   private companies with valuations of $1 billion or more   every investment had a liquidation preference. Higher valuations create higher expectations, and failure to meet them can set off a downward spiral and a forced sale. In that event, the venture capitalists are paid first, leaving  unicorpses  in their wake and the founders with nothing. And don t expect I.P.O.s to save these companies. Some unicorns, like Honest Company, have terms that require minimum I.P.O. prices for the V.C. investors that they just won t be able to meet anytime soon. As these valuations go up and down, remember that reaching a $1 billion valuation is not all good news for a start-up. Instead, it can simply mean that the newly foaled unicorn has made a Faustian bargain.