As Search Matures, Baidu Tries to Move Offline: Baidu is spending an estimated $2.5 billion on e-commerce projects this year as its profits dwindle. Baidu runs China s primary search engine, but with the PC search business maturing and the economy slowing, Chairman Robin Li has been looking to diversify. In the past two years, he s pushed Baidu deeper into the kinds of e-commerce businesses dominated by China s other two big Internet companies, Alibaba and Tencent. During that time, Baidu s invested almost $1 billion in more than a dozen websites and apps specializing in everything from food delivery to laundry pickup, from booking a doctor s appointment to reserving a slot at a karaoke club. The goal is  transforming the company from connecting people with information to connecting people with services,  says Li, who s committing $3.1 billion more over the next three years to just one of Baidu s investments, Groupon look-alike Nuomi.com. But as it commits more money to e-commerce expansion efforts, its profit margins have fallen by half since 2012, to 28 percent in its most recent quarter. So while Baidu is tapping its $12 billion in cash to widen its e-commerce footprint, it s also trying to attract big-name partners. The company paid an undisclosed amount for a minority stake in Uber in December, and fast-food chain Ajisen announced in July that it s investing $60 million in Baidu s takeout service, which launched last year and has about 8 percent of China s market. Borrowing from Amazon.com s strategy, Li is also expanding Baidu s entertainment offerings. Its video service, IQiyi, signed a deal with Paramount Pictures in July for local streaming rights to 800 of the studio s titles, including the Transformers and Terminator series. Baidu has a ways to go before its new ventures pay for themselves. Investment bank Jefferies estimates that Baidu s profit will fall more than 12 percent this year, to about $1.8 billion, while the company spends $2.5 billion on its e-commerce-centric expansion. Baidu s Nasdaq-listed shares have dropped 28 percent in the past six months, and Li says he may consider delisting from the U.S. in favor of his home market. But, he says,  We need to be patient and give our U.S. investors some time. I hope they will be able to appreciate us more. 