Apple releases major updates to leading products and pushes into new arenas. Apple unveiled an array of major improvements to its iPhones, iPads and other leading products Wednesday, including a voice-activated television box that the company said would form  a new foundation for TV.  The updated Apple TV includes some hardware improvements, such as a remote control that allows users to easily navigate through entertainment options simply by speaking to Siri, Apple s voice assistant. But perhaps the device s more significant feature is its ability to function as a game console, which could set up the company to enter a new arena in living room entertainment. Apple said several major gaming software companies are making versions of popular titles for Apple TV. The new device will also come with its own app store, allowing third-party developers to shape how consumers get entertainment and videos on their televisions. Apple also showed how to use the best screen in the house to look at rooms for rent on Airbnb s Web site or homes for sale on Zillow. That was one of several story lines during Apple s presentation in San Francisco. The electronics giant also introduced a new tablet   a $799 iPad Pro   aimed at business clients, as well as new software on its watch and other mobile devices that Apple said would revolutionize how doctors and patients interact. At one point, the audience of several thousand reporters and Apple employees at the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium was shown how a pregnant woman could record her fetus's heartbeat and send the sound in a live stream to her doctor. Apple also updated its most important product, the iPhone, which accounts for 56 percent of the company s sales. The new iPhone 6S and its larger cousin, the 6S Plus, have 12-megapixel cameras, sharper screens and a feature called 3D Touch, which brings up different menus depending on how hard a user presses the screen.  Apple also introduced a new iPad Pro, which has a display area roughly twice that of the iPad Air and is largely aimed at businesses. The tablet can be bought with a keyboard and has a beefier processor that can run heavy programs such as Microsoft Office. And, indeed, to tout the device, Apple invited executives from Microsoft, its former rival, to show how the popular office suite would work on the iPad. Also on stage were executives from Adobe, another software company Apple in the past has criticized for lax security. And in another move that broke with the past, Apple displayed a new stylus for the iPad Pro that it called the Apple Pencil, a product that likely would have been blocked by the company s late co-founder Steve Jobs, who in 2010 mocked companies that offered styluses to consumers