Restaurant of the Future  Service With an Impersonal Touch There s a new quinoa restaurant in San Francisco   yes, quinoa restaurants are a thing in San Francisco, so that s not what s noteworthy. At this restaurant, customers order, pay and receive their food and never interact with a person. The restaurant, Eatsa, the first outlet in a company with national ambitions, is almost fully automated. There are no waiters or even an order taker behind a counter. There is no counter. There are unseen people helping to prepare the food, but there are plans to fully automate that process, too, if it can be done less expensively than employing people. For optimists, it s a way to make restaurant-going more efficient and less expensive. For pessimists, it s the latest example of how machines are stealing people s jobs. Either way, it s like heaven for misanthropes, or those who are in too much of a hurry to chat with a server. The quinoa   stir-fried, with arugula, parsnips and red curry   tasted quite good. Whether a restaurant that employs few people is good for the economy is another question. Restaurants, especially fast-food restaurants, have traditionally been a place where low-skilled workers can find employment. Most of the workers are not paid much, though in San Francisco employers of a certain size must pay health benefits and in 2018 a minimum wage of $15. Mr. Friedberg said that was not the reason his team automated so many roles.  Technology allows us to completely rethink how people get their food,  he said. Automation is transforming every industry. Business owners look to substitute machines for human labor. It happened to blue-collar workers in factories and white-collar workers in banks and even law firms. With self-driving vehicles, it may happen in the taxi and trucking industries. Robots and artificial intelligence machines are expected to transform health care. Automation, in rudimentary forms, is already part of many restaurants. Reservations are made online, orders arrive at the kitchen electronically, and bills are paid with a swipe on an iPad. Chains like Chili s and airport restaurants use tablet computers for ordering and paying, to speed the process and cut personnel costs. It might be a harbinger of a future in which eating out no longer involves waiters. Restaurants with servers could become the novelty, reserved for occasions when you want more ambience and hands-on attention than Eatsa s  food delivery system. 