Facebook s Messenger And The Challenge To Google s Search Dominance. When Facebook announced M an A.I.-powered personal assistant that lives inside Messenger it fired a massive shell across Google s bow. Indeed, if Facebook can successfully scale M to its entire audience (and WhatsApp s, as well), this new product represents a direct assault on search and AdWords the lifeblood of Google s business. To understand how a digital personal assistant that lives inside a mobile messaging app represents a disruptive threat to Google, let s look at why Google is in this situation in the first place. Google faces the classic innovator s dilemma: somewhere in the recesses of its collective corporate mind, Google knows that keyword search the current foundation of its empire is not the future. Because Larry Page and Sergey Brin are visionaries, they know that the next-generation solution to the problem of search looks less like a clickable list of links and more like a primitive Star Trek computer or an early version of the A.I. from the movie Her. The future of search is an intelligent digital assistant that can complete tasks. Like Google today, the search engine of the future will be able to mine the vast expanses of the internet for relevant information and deliver it to you in milliseconds. But much unlike today s Google, the future s search engine will behave like a digital personal assistant that can understand and predict your needs, then deliver on them without requiring you to navigate to any web pages or tap around a bunch of apps. When you do ask for something, this search engine will not respond with a list of blueish links. Instead, it will respond with a definitive result or a completed task. When it doesn t have the definitive result or can t complete the task on the first pass, it will ask you further questions to get closer and closer, until the machine gets it right. it s not yet clear if Larry Page and Sergey Brin would be willing to invest in an Alphabet spin-off that threatened to kill their golden goose: the risks are just so big, and the scale of the rewards so uncertain. Meanwhile, Siri remains a wildcard, Facebook is testing M, Microsoft is bringing Cortana to Android, and Slack is making a long-term run at the A.I. assistant game, too. This is why they call it a dilemma.