Indian Shopkeepers Help You Tap  Buy : Since 2013, at least $8.6 billion has poured into Indian e-commerce companies. The slice of the population that s ever shopped online: 4 percent. As the country s leading Internet bazaars Flipkart, Snapdeal, and Amazon India hawk wares to the urban, English-speaking middle class, they re all but ignoring the 510 million working-age adults living in rural areas.  These people don t trust an app or a website  even if they have a phone, says Krishna Lakamsani, founder of e-commerce startup IPay.  They will only buy from someone they know and trust.  That s why IPay and rival StoreKing are recruiting local shopkeepers to sell online goods in their stores in exchange for commissions. By relying on merchants to persuade people to buy online, IPay says it moves about $1.6 million worth of merchandise each month through 6,000 shopkeepers  tablets in India s southern states; StoreKing sells $4.2 million through 10,000. The early returns are promising, even if they re a sliver of Flipkart and Snapdeal, each of which says it sold $300 million worth of goods in June. Amazon wouldn t disclose sales. For the shopkeepers, commissions range from 4 percent to 10 percent, and the tablets $134 from IPay, $226 from StoreKing quickly pay for themselves. During the eight months Panjala has had the IPay unit, he says, each day he s done about $30 worth of business on it, one-seventh of his sales. Using shopkeepers to push the tablets means IPay and StoreKing don t have to worry about training most customers to order through their apps. Because shipments get delivered to the shops, there s less risk of losing goods on remote roads. And the buyers pay cash, so the companies don t have to invest in electronic payment systems.  We ve been generating operating profits from Day One,  says StoreKing Chief Executive Officer Sridhar Gundaiah.  That s something none of the big e-commerce companies can boast of.  Amazon and Snapdeal say they re experimenting with kiosks that also help customers buy online. StoreKing and IPay are creating a rural e-commerce market in India by selling via tablets in thousands of local stores.