Why Lyft Should Go Public Before Uber: It s no secret that Lyft is far smaller than Uber. It s in 65 cities in the U.S. compared to Uber s 60 countries around the world. A 2014 study done by financial firm FutureAdvisor, which analyzed U.S. credit and debit card transactions, said that Uber s American revenue was 12 times that of Lyft. Uber s aggression has resulted in its American dominance; even its name has become common slang for  ride-share.  If Lyft was to go public before Uber, it would steal some of the black car company s thunder. Consumer tech IPOs are regularly big marketing events. Given that few on-demand companies have gone public, the first IPO of a ride-hailing service would attract a lot of attention. By going public first, Lyft would also be able to grab early dollars, attracting investors that didn t have the opportunity to access Uber s big private funding rounds. Just like Uber injured Lyft s private fundraising efforts by snapping up a huge array of potential investors for itself, Lyft could try a similar tactic with the public market. Not everyone will have the money or risk-taking appetite to back multiple ride-hailing companies. Lastly, a comparatively early IPO would give Lyft more money for its battle with Uber. At this point, the former has far less cash reserves   $1 billion   than the latter, which has more than $5 billion. Going public is primarily a way to raise a lot of money and fuel the business s growth, and Lyft could use that. Despite the reasons it would make sense for Lyft to go public before Uber, its investors and advisers warned that they weren t sure that was likely to happen. One said that since Lyft s founders, John Zimmer and Logan Green, were  conservative  in their endeavors they might not take the risk of paving the ride-hailing IPO way. Another said that the company wouldn t want to preempt a public offering if its finances and growth numbers weren t strong enough for the quarterly scrutiny of the market (see Twitter as an example of why an early IPO doesn t always end well).