In Video, Uber CEO Argues With Driver Over Falling Fares:  I don t know if you remember me, but it s fine,  Kamel says. The pair begin talking shop, and Kalanick explains that they re going to cut down on the number of black cars, which will reduce competition and should be good for Kamel. Then Kamel says what every driver has been dying to tell Kalanick:  You re raising the standards, and you re dropping the prices.  Kalanick:  We re not dropping the prices on black.  Kamel:  But in general the whole price is   Kalanick:  We have to; we have competitors; otherwise, we d go out of business.  Kamel:  Competitors  Man, you had the business model in your hands. You could have the prices you want, but you choose to buy everybody a ride.  Kalanick:  No, no no. You misunderstand me. We started high-end. We didn t go low-end because we wanted to. We went low-end because we had to because we d be out of business.  Kamel:  What  Lyft  It s a piece of cake right there.  Kalanick:  It seems like a piece of cake because I ve beaten them. But if I didn t do the things I did, we would have been beaten, I promise.  The two bat that idea around, and Kamel brings the conversation back to his losses. Kamel:  But people are not trusting you anymore.   I lost $97,000 because of you. I'm bankrupt because of you. Yes, yes, yes. You keep changing every day. You keep changing every day.  Kalanick:  Hold on a second, what have I changed about Black  What have I changed   Kamel:  You changed the whole business. You dropped the prices.  Kalanick:  On black   Kamel:  Yes, you did.  Kalanick begins to lose his temper.  Bullshit,  he says. Kamel:  We started with $20.  Kalanick:  Bullshit.  Kamel:  We started with $20. How much is the mile now, $2.75   Kalanick:  You know what   Kamel:  What   Kalanick:  Some people don't like to take responsibility for their own shit. They blame everything in their life on somebody else. Good luck!  Kamel:  Good luck to you, but I know [you're not] going to go far.  The door slams. Kamel drives away. Later, the Uber driver app prompts him to rate Kalanick, as he does all his riders. Kamel gives him one star.