Your First 10 Customers Can Make Or Break You: Early in a startup s life, the main focus is building the right product for the right market. For most B2B startups, this is the period when you start winning your first 10 customers. These 10 customers are unlike any others you ll have over the course of your company. You ll sell to them differently, charge them differently and try to get different things out of the relationship than you will from those that follow. This is the group that will teach you how to refine your product, whether or not you are targeting a large enough market and how to craft a scalable sales process that will help you land your next 100 customers. You re The First Head Of Sales. It will be tempting to hire an experienced sales veteran when you re busy trying to get the product right and grow the company, but there is a strong argument against that. The first 10 customers should be sold by you, the CEO or founder. Look For Young And Ambitious Customers. While it s admirable to target big-name customers, the chances are unlikely that they ll take a meeting or make a bet on a brand new product. Similarly, a potential customer who is far along or at the end of his career may not have a high tolerance for risk or change. Focus On Engagement, Not Revenue. As you land more customers and add them to your client roster, it is essential that each initial customer uses your product at the engagement level to be considered an active user. Engagement levels   not revenue numbers   are often a stronger indication of long-term product adoption. This should be your top priority. Your first set of customers will inevitably serve as reference accounts   and the more engaged users are, the better references they ll provide. Know Who To  Sign  And When To Walk Away. Focus your initial sales efforts on prospects who aren t your friends. To be scalable, your product will need validation outside of your network, and you need the type of honest feedback that friends don t often provide.