Google Now s Staff Exodus Reveals Hurdles for New CEO Pichai: On Thursday, Microsoft fired up an old rivalry. The Redmond giant released an update to its Bing search app that allows other apps to tap into its information architecture. See something in one mobile app   a nice location shot in Instagram, say   and, with a tap, you can summon information about that something via Bing. Nothing earth-shattering. But Microsoft happened to put out the release on Android first, and did so right before Google is set to launch Now on Tap, a nearly identical feature. Google teased the product with some fanfare in May, at its I/O developer conference, as a breakthrough iteration of Google Now, its personal assistant and one of the twin bedrocks for CEO Larry Page when he returned as executive in 2011. What went unannounced was that most of the original team that built Now had departed, many of them just before I/O, according to multiple sources. Some had grown frustrated that the product, born within Android, was shuttered into search inside of Google, they said. And Sundar Pichai, Google s SVP and incoming CEO, did not prioritize the product as much as Page. The exits reveal the hiccups Google has incubating new products that reach across multiple units of the tech giant. They also expose some key traits of Pichai s leadership style   and some of the many hurdles he has ahead as he marshals Google s core business. At some point last year Amit Singhal, the SVP who heads search, requested that Now move from Android into his division, multiple sources said. Several engineers objected. According to multiple sources, their initial vision of Now   as a mobile assistant tailored to particular users   works best living on the mobile operating system, not within search. Also, Google is a political place and search is Congress. Big, necessary, stodgy. Pichai approved Singhal s request. In part, perhaps, because Google must balance products like Now, which push information to users, with its central business problem: It makes less money from mobile searches. Google has started to deploy Now as a primary vehicle for indexing apps. Two of the engineers who created Now left the company in March; several others left around the same time. Only one of the founding team remains at Google, according to multiple sources. (Google, again, declined to comment on this.) For several, the experience of seeing their product steered in an unwanted direction was too dispiriting, they said.  Google s a big company,  said one person who departed.  This is how big companies work. 