A Plunge in China Rattles Markets Across the Globe: Concerns about China s ability to be a powerful engine of global economic growth have added to worries about the potential impact of higher interest rates in the United States, driving stocks sharply lower in Asia and Europe on Monday. When trading opened in New York, the major market measures went into what was essentially a free fall. While the steepest losses ended within minutes, share prices spent the rest of the day sharply rising and reversing course multiple times. When the day s roller-coaster ride ended, the benchmark for stocks, the Standard & Poor s 500-stock index, was down 3.9 percent. That left the index off 11 percent from its May high, in what in market parlance is called a  correction,  its first since 2011. On Monday, the Shanghai composite index closed down 8.7 percent. In Europe, benchmark indexes in Germany, Britain and France fell nearly 5 percent or more. A number of emerging markets were also lower, with leading indexes in Brazil and Indonesia both down around 4 percent. In the United States, the Dow Jones industrial average plummeted 1,000 points before regaining ground. Major US indices recovered some ground but still ended the day down over 3.5% each. The Treasury market was a beneficiary of the fear in stocks. The demand for bonds pushed the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note to as low as 1.90 percent before it settled at 2.01 percent. The recent market tumult began two weeks ago when the Chinese government unexpectedly allowed the value of its currency to drop, partly in response to indications that the country s economy is weakening. The Chinese moves played into the continuing drop in the price of oil, which has taken the price of a barrel of crude oil down 65 percent over the last year. On Monday, the price of oil, as measured by a benchmark New York contract, dropped below $40. The selling in China has accelerated despite extraordinary government intervention in the last two months aimed at propping up share prices. On Sunday, the Chinese government said that the country s pension funds would be allowed to invest in stocks for the first time. But the slide on Monday highlighted that the new policy, and several similar recent moves, have not been successful. Many investors are now hoping that the central bank, the People s Bank of China, will cut the ratio of deposits that banks are required to keep on reserve in a bid to encourage lending and spur economic growth.