Farewell To Flash: What It Means For Digital Video Publishers: It s been more than five years since Steve Jobs wrote his infamous  Thoughts on Flash  letter citing the high level of energy consumption, lack of performance on mobile and poor security as the reasons his company s products would not support Adobe Flash technology. Finally, it appears we re getting closer to the curtain closing on Flash. Over the years, Flash has become famous for a few less-than flattering features that can all play a role in hindering user experience, including intrusive experiences, increasing page-load times, lowering a site s search engine optimization (SEO) and security flaws. Despite all these grievances, the digital-video advertising industry has been forced to use Flash because of VPAID (Video Player-Ad Interface Definition), a standard that allows a video ad and a video player to communicate with each other. VPAID provides a way to dynamically swap or customize video-ad creative based on ad decisions, and has long been used for Flash-based video ads on desktops. When you consider the fact that Flash needs to be installed (as opposed to HTML5, which requires no installation), it s easy to see why in the long term, it didn t stand a chance. This means that if publishers don t upgrade their format specification, some or all of their video content may no longer be available for people to view; this will certainly affect viewer loyalty and monetization efforts. For example, Flash video ads served in a desktop Chrome browser will load in a paused state, then the user will have to click the ad for it to play. These ads will still register as impressions. However, it won t take long for programmatic buyers to scale back their bids on video ad inventory garnering a high number of impressions with no quartiles. Publishers need to urge their buyers to prepare for the upcoming Flash-pocalypse because, despite the publishers  level of preparation, if their buyers don t have the proper HTML5 creative assets, it will impact their ability to transact, having an impact on publisher revenue and the ability to successfully implement advertiser campaigns. The most crucial thing for publishers is going to be ensuring that their advertisers and demand partners (ad networks, ad exchanges and advertisers) are providing and hosting HTML5 ad creatives moving forward. Publishers themselves will also need to migrate their tech stack. Not having a complete HTML5 advertising technology stack can potentially impact their ad revenue as buyer bids will eventually subside for non-compatible inventory.