The  Unicorn  Club, Now Admitting New Members: The $1 billion valuation metric was popularized two years ago by the venture investor Aileen Lee. She found that many of the start-ups that reaped the hugest riches for venture capital investors   Facebook and LinkedIn, for example   often reached a valuation of $1 billion or more while they were privately held. Because of their rarity, Ms. Lee called those companies  unicorns,  after the mythical creatures. Since then, numerous start-ups have attained the $1 billion distinction   and topped it. With investors rushing to bet on the next big thing, the ride-hailing service Uber received a valuation of around $51 billion, while Airbnb, the online room-rental service, is pegged at about $24 billion. And every month, more companies are jumping into the unicorn echelon. To find out which companies might be next to ascend, CB Insights, which tracks venture capital and start-ups, conducted an analysis for The New York Times. CB Insights used a proprietary software tool called Mosaic, which analyzes dozens of factors about a start-up, including the amount of money raised by a company, employee turnover, news and social media mentions, awards, customer growth and partnerships. It also examines the overall health of the industry in which the start-up competes, as well as what can be known about the quality of a company s investors. CB Insights won a grant from the National Science Foundation to build Mosaic, using machine learning and data science to turn unstructured text into a quantitative tool to measure company health. The CB Insights analysis resulted in a list of 50 companies that cover the globe and span different tech sectors but speak to some of the trends from the current boom. Half of the companies on the list are based in San Francisco and Silicon Valley, the cradle of tech start-ups, but 10 are international, with several hailing from China and India. Ms. Lee, who coined the term unicorn, said there were more $1 billion private companies these days partly because big industries like hotels and taxis were now considered fair game for start-ups. The thing to watch, she said, is whether companies meet the expectations and goals they set when they became unicorns before they burn through the money they raised.  If they don t do that, they re in a dangerous position,  she said.