Inside Amazon: Wrestling Big Ideas in a Bruising Workplace: At Amazon, workers are encouraged to tear apart one another s ideas in meetings, toil long and late (emails arrive past midnight, followed by text messages asking why they were not answered), and held to standards that the company boasts are  unreasonably high.  The internal phone directory instructs colleagues on how to send secret feedback to one another s bosses. Employees say it is frequently used to sabotage others. (The tool offers sample texts, including this:  I felt concerned about his inflexibility and openly complaining about minor tasks. ) While the Amazon campus appears similar to those of some tech giants   with its dog-friendly offices, work force that skews young and male, on-site farmers  market and upbeat posters   the company is considered a place apart. Google and Facebook motivate employees with gyms, meals and benefits, like cash handouts for new parents,  designed to take care of the whole you,  as Google puts it. Amazon, though, offers no pretense that catering to employees is a priority. Compensation is considered competitive   successful midlevel managers can collect the equivalent of an extra salary from grants of a stock that has increased more than tenfold since 2008. But workers are expected to embrace  frugality  (No. 9), from the bare-bones desks to the cellphones and travel expenses that they often pay themselves. (No daily free food buffets or regular snack supplies, either.) The focus is on relentless striving to please customers, or  customer obsession  (No. 1), with words like  mission  used to describe lightning-quick delivery of Cocoa Krispies or selfie sticks.  One time I didn t sleep for four days straight,  said Dina Vaccari, who joined in 2008 to sell Amazon gift cards to other companies and once used her own money, without asking for approval, to pay a freelancer in India to enter data so she could get more done.  These businesses were my babies, and I did whatever I could to make them successful.  David Loftesness, a senior developer, said he admired the customer focus but could not tolerate the hostile language used in many meetings, a comment echoed by many others. For years, he and his team devoted themselves to improving the search capabilities of Amazon s website   only to discover that Mr. Bezos had greenlighted a secret competing effort to build an alternate technology.  I m not going to be the kind of person who can work in this environment,  he said he concluded. He went on to become a director of engineering at Twitter.