Facebook Launches Autofill Forms, Improved Customer Service and Enhanced Video Analytics: Autofill Forms: Overview: Facebook s latest ads automatically populate contact information that people have previously given Facebook, like email addresses, phone numbers, address, company name, job title, etc. Details: Facebook has dubbed its new ad type as  lead ads  and hopes that their existence will make the mobile signup process easier. Lead ads take the friction out of the clunky experience associated with responding to mobile ads and filling out forms. Instead of leaving one app to start a form in another app and then entering all the information again from scratch, lead ads allow users to stay within their news feed. Retailer Opportunities: Removing clicks and manual data entry can greatly boost conversion rates for those brands advertising on Facebook. What You Should Know: Lead ads aren t currently available to everyone. Facebook is testing them with a small group of businesses around the world to gain feedback before rolling them out to the wider public. Improved Customer Service. Overview: Facebook s latest step toward enhancing customer service for pages is  saved replies    a feature allowing page admins to write, save and reuse canned messages when they receive an inquiry via Facebook Messenger. Details: When responding to a message, saved replies appear in a list to the left. Simply click on your desired response from the list and it will automatically display in the message body and auto-populate with personalization features, such as the respondent s name, admin s name and company website. Retailer Opportunities: Customer service via social media is increasingly becoming more common. Why would consumers want to spend an extended amount of time waiting on the phone when they can quickly shoot the brand a message  This new feature will save businesses time when handling incoming customer service inquiries. Enhanced Video Analytics. Overview: Video metrics have been added to page insights. Details: On the new dedicated video tab, page admins can track total views, 30-second views, top videos and metrics for videos shared by other pages. In addition to customizing the date ranges, you can slice the data into various segments, such as organic versus paid, auto-played versus click-to-play and unique versus repeat.