PebblePost raises $15M to combine online data and old-school mail: PebblePost is betting that there s a big marketing opportunity in printed postcards and catalogs. The startup is announcing that it has raised $15 million in Series B funding. The round was led by RRE Ventures, with participation from Greycroft Partners and Tribeca Ventures. RRE s Jim Robinson is joining the PebblePost board of directors. PebblePost describes its offering as  programmatic direct mail.  The idea is to send customized follow-ups to potential customers based on their online activity   so if you re browsing a retailer s website, you could get a postcard a few days later highlighting some of their products and maybe offering some discounts. CEO Lewis Gersh was previously a founder at seed investment firm Metamorphic Ventures (now known as Compound), where he said he built  probably the largest portfolio of retargeters of any fund in the country    namely, companies that use your online behavior to target you for ads. (The ad companies he backed include iSocket, Mass Relevance and Movable Ink.) However, he said digital advertising has become  the new junk mail,  where marketers have to get more and more aggressive in the hopes of getting eyeballs and clicks. One of the problems, Gersh said, is that ads are often shown when someone is  100 percent not disposed to action   and worse.  In contrast, he said that when someone gets physical mail, they usually stick all the relevant stuff into a pile to deal with when they have more time. That means that when they actually go through their mail, they re more likely to be receptive to a brand s message   and maybe even ready to do some shopping. To be clear, you re not necessarily going to get a postcard talking about the exact product you were looking at   Gersh acknowledged that would be  annoying  and  spooky.  Instead, you might see other products that are in the same category, serving as a  gentle, relevant reminder.  The approach seems to be working, with an average of 7 to 10 percent of PebblePost mail resulting in a purchase.