As private and public multiples diverge sharply, some investors bet on public companies : Airbnb s valuation has ballooned over the last few years as large financial firms like Fidelity Investments and T. Rowe Price have rushed to invest in the start-up. But a small San Francisco-based hedge fund called Pier 88 Investment Partners has decided that the fervor for Airbnb shares creates a different kind of opportunity. While other investors paid dearly to buy a piece of Airbnb   the start-up s latest funding round valued it at $24 billion   Pier 88 did not invest directly in the privately held online home-rental company. Instead, Pier 88 put money into HomeAway, a publicly traded Internet company that competes with Airbnb, but has a market capitalization of just $2.95 billion. Frank Timons and LeAnne Schweitzer, the co-founders of Pier 88, believe there is money to be made on this big gap between public and private company valuations. In their view, the public companies are such relative bargains that they will make great acquisitions for purchasers that want to better compete with upstarts like Airbnb. Then, when those publicly traded companies are snapped up   often for a premium of more than 50 percent   Pier 88 can profit from the bet. Some elite start-ups are now vastly more expensive than their publicly traded cousins. Apart from Airbnb being pegged at eight times the value of HomeAway, the ride-hailing start-up Uber was recently valued at around $51 billion, compared with $7.3 billion for the rental-car company Hertz. The storage start-up Dropbox has a valuation of around $10 billion, while its publicly traded rival Box has a $1.9 billion market capitalization. It s not perfectly accurate to directly compare market capitalization and private company valuations, since private companies keep their true financial pictures hidden. Still,  the easy private financing environment has created an interesting trade opportunity,  said Kenneth J. Heinz, the president of Hedge Fund Research, which tracks hedge funds and their performance.  With such a disparity between public and private multiples, it s a reasonable fundamental approach to believe that in this environment, the public company valuation will come up or the company will be acquired. 