As Employees Flee Twitter and Shares Continue to Slump; Drop to Lowest Since IPO May Lure Takeover Offers: Shares slumped 5.6 percent on Monday to $29.27, the lowest price since the company s November 2013 initial public offering. The move pushed Twitter below $20 billion in market value, making it more attractive to potential acquirers like Google, investors said. Last week, Jack Dorsey, Twitter s interim chief executive officer and co-founder, and Chief Financial Officer Anthony Noto warned that it will be a while before the social media company stems a slowdown in user growth. They also noted that demand from advertisers missed their expectations. Meanwhile, Twitter is conducting a search to replace former CEO Dick Costolo.  Their comments could be suppressing the stock price for a reason, because their strategy is to be acquired,  said Jeff Sica, president of Sica Wealth Management, who has clients who hold Twitter.  I m advising anyone that owns Twitter to hold, because I do think at this point there s going to be an acquisition.  Even at these levels, Twitter with a small premium would probably be the largest acquisition ever for Google or Facebook Inc. Facebook last year acquired WhatsApp Inc., a messaging application, for $22 billion. Twitter has been increasing its ties with Google, making a deal earlier this year to display tweets in search results and partnering with Google s Doubleclick ad product. Twitter s price would have to drop to $11.16 a share, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. For Facebook s earnings to benefit, Twitter shares would only need to drop to $20.78. Competitors are looking at some of Twitter s assets: its employees. Two product executives announced their departures on July 28, the same day the company reported earnings. Todd Jackson, who helped Twitter debut its Highlights product, left for Dropbox Inc., while Christian Oestlien, who helped drive growth, is going to Google s YouTube. Trevor O Brien, also in product leadership, announced his departure a few days later. Without a clear path to a leader who can help Twitter accelerate user growth,  the only strategy that will work for them is if they re acquired .