For Mobile Messaging, GIFs Prove to Be Worth at Least a Thousand Words: Just as smartphones drove the rise of emoji, mobile devices are propelling GIFs into a more widespread form of instant visual-messaging. Tumblr, the blogging site, said it had 23 million GIFs posted to its site every day. In March, Facebook began supporting GIFs, with more than five million of the animations sent daily through its messaging app. Slack, the workplace collaboration start-up, says it counts more than two million GIF integrations each month. In total, online searches for GIFs have risen by a factor of nine since mid-2012, according to Experian Marketing Services, an industry research firm. While the brief animations are not new   GIFs were created in 1987 by Steve Wilhite, a programmer at CompuServe, and have been omnipresent on desktops   major improvements in mobile technology and a surge of messaging applications are pushing GIFs to break out beyond the web forums of old. They have become a mainstream form of digital expression, a way to relay complex feelings and thoughts in ways beyond words and even photographs, making them hugely popular with young audiences who never leave home without their smartphones. The animated snippets are being spread on mobile devices by a new generation of GIF start-ups, which are backed by venture capital. Riffsy, which makes the GIF keyboard for smartphones, just raised $10 million. Giphy, which provides a search engine for a vast library of GIFs, has raised more than $23 million. And there are numerous other companies, like Imgur, PopKey and Kanvas, all eager to snip and remix video clips into short, ready-to-share packages. For now, few of these companies are profiting from GIFs as they focus on propagating the use of the clips. But the start-ups see potential for profit, especially as brands increasingly integrate the animations into advertising and other marketing. GIFs are marked by certain characteristics. They are typically a few seconds long, soundless and play in a loop. They are often culled from movie and TV clips and can include text on top of the animated image. Their use has seeped into professional venues, frequently replacing text. Google recently sent a reporter a GIF of a toddler throwing her hands up in response to a question. Digital publications like BuzzFeed regularly use GIFs as a storytelling method. And office workers like Jerrod Howlett, an employee at Google, regularly respond to email with GIFs.  I m not that great with words,  Mr. Howlett said.  But if I find the perfect GIF, it nails it. 