German Carmakers Buy Nokia s Here Mapping Unit for $3 Billion: Nokia said that it had sold its Here digital mapping unit to a consortium of German automakers for 2.8 billion euros, or about $3 billion. The announcement signals the latest chapter in Nokia s transformation, as the company tries to rebound from the demise of its once world-leading mobile phone unit, which was sold to Microsoft last year for about $7.6 billion. As part of the changes, the Finnish company has pared its operations to focus almost entirely on its telecom network infrastructure business, which provides communications equipment to some of the world s largest carriers. The members of the German consortium said that they would use Nokia s digital mapping unit for their own autonomous driving plans, but that they would be willing to license the technology to other companies. The sale of Nokia s mapping unit comes as the Finnish company is close to completing its $16.6 billion acquisition of the French-American telecom equipment maker Alcatel-Lucent. Nokia has received regulatory approval from United States and European antitrust authorities for that deal, but it is still waiting for the go-ahead from Chinese officials. By agreeing to a sale price of roughly $3 billion, the Finnish company is essentially writing off years of research and development, and a series of multibillion acquisitions that had turned Here into a global mapping champion. Those deals include the $8.1 billion purchase in 2007 of Navteq, the maker of digital mapping and navigational software based in Chicago, as Nokia tried to keep pace with other handset makers and mobile operating systems. As digital maps are becoming a crucial focal point of many emerging industries, a number of bidders had expressed interest in Here, including the ride-booking service Uber, which submitted a $3 billion bid for the business before dropping out last month. Other tech giants, including Amazon, the Chinese search engine Baidu and Facebook, also rely on Nokia s geospatial data for their mapping services. These companies had turned to Here to reduce their reliance on Google   a company that they increasingly compete with for users, engineers and advertising revenue. It will now be up to the German automakers to convince these tech companies that they can continue to offer the same level of digital mapping services that had made Nokia s unit the main global rival to Google Maps.