India s Snapdeal, an Amazon Competitor, Raises $500 Million From Alibaba, Foxconn and SoftBank: Alibaba finally has its ally in India, perhaps the world s hottest e-commerce market. The Chinese e-commerce giant has invested in Snapdeal, an India-based e-commerce startup, as part of a $500 million round, according to multiple sources. Foxconn, the Taiwanese company best known as a manufacturer of Apple s iPhones, also invested, alongside existing Snapdeal investor SoftBank. Snapdeal had previously raised more than $1 billion from investors including SoftBank, eBay, BlackRock, Bessemer Ventures and Indian venture firms such as Kalaari Capital and Nexus Venture Partners. Alibaba and Foxconn were considering the investment earlier this year, which would value Snapdeal at $5 billion, the Wall Street Journal reported in June. The company has undergone several iterations since Kunal Bahl and Rohit Bansal founded it in 2010, including one as a Groupon clone. Today, it s an online shopping marketplace that sells a wide range of products, from cameras to jeans to toys   pitting it against Flipkart, a homegrown competitor currently valued at around $15 billion, and Amazon, which is investing billions of dollars into its Indian business. In the past year, Snapdeal has started to develop an ecosystem of sites by acquiring companies focused on different areas of online commerce. It bought FreeCharge, a popular service in India that allows people to add money to prepaid phone plans and prepaid TV plans. It also acquired RupeePower, a comparison shopping site for credit cards and loans. The approach is not all that different from Alibaba s, which runs a host of different marketplaces focused on different types of buyers and different regions. While Flipkart has more market share in India, Snapdeal CEO Bahl thinks that company and Amazon are thinking too narrowly by being focused mainly on the sale of physical products, he told Re/code during an interview at Snapdeal s Indian headquarters in April. Snapdeal, on the other hand, is going after what Bahl believes will eventually be a $250 billion opportunity   bringing all kinds of other transactions online in addition to the sale of products.  What s the delta between retail and consumption   Bahl asked rhetorically, referring to the difference between the two.  It s things like financial services, education, utilities, health care. But today, all everyone is doing is products.   Others are building aircraft carriers,  he added.  We are building an army of speedboats. 