Why Some Start-Ups Are Called Tech Companies and Others Are Not: these days, every company is at least a little bit of a tech company. Some Wall Street banks employ more tech workers than all but the biggest Silicon Valley companies. And large manufacturers like General Electric are leading the way in efforts to put Internet-connected sensors on things as varied as streets and turbines. So why then are some start-ups called tech companies and others just   companies   Tech means more than just producing hardware or software,  said Mark Zandi, the chief economist at Moody s Analytics.  It is synonymous with innovation, research and development, long-term thinking.  The label is a signal that  you want to work for me. You want to buy things from me at a higher price. You want to give me capital at a lower cost,  Mr. Zandi said. It is difficult to say what the financial windfall of the tech label is to today s start-ups since most of them are still private companies, though no doubt they benefit from being close to the tech industry s deep-pocketed financiers. But toward the end of the dot-com boom at the turn of the century, Raghavendra Rau, now a professor of finance at the University of Cambridge Judge Business School, was the co-author of a study that documented the temporary surge in the stock prices of companies that added the dot-com suffix to their names. Those temporary dot-coms took advantage of an investor behavior called  categorization,  said Mr. Rau. Categorization helps us understand something if we re not familiar with it.  We build up a story in our heads on what we think we are going to see,  he said.  Even if the firm has no cash flows or no profits, we think we know what the story is. And firms are good at seeing what is popular and trying to fit in with that mental map.  Today s happy adopters of the tech label, however, should note the follow-up research by Mr. Rau and his co-authors after the dot-com bubble popped early last decade. He found that double-switchers   companies that added and later dropped their dot-com identity   saw their stock prices over one month move 38.5 percent ahead of companies that kept the dot-com name. In a few years, maybe being labeled a logistics company won t be such a bad thing.