Steep Discounts a Boon for Customers, but a Gamble for Start-Upsh: Jet.com, a well-funded new shopping site, opened to the public last week and celebrated the debut by sending reporters a big box of swag. I got a T-shirt with a company logo, fuzzy socks, stickers and $1,400 in oversize, fake $100 bills. Jet is a discount site, so I suspect the funny money was meant to illustrate the cash I d save by shopping there. But the faux bills immediately evoked a more cautious reminder   of all the money Jet plans to spend to become the next force in online shopping. It isn t just Jet. On a venture-capital high, tech start-ups are burning through vast cash reserves to offer rock-bottom prices, and to sign up new customers with discounts, giveaways and other deals that may sound too good to be true. Jet, a Costco-like members-only discount company that has raised more than $225 million from investors before opening its doors, is only the largest such example. Forget the fake bills; for Jet, as well as for many of its smaller start-up kin, giving away real money is a key part of business. This sounds fishy. But there s an upside: While investors  cash lasts, consumers could be in for a boon. After all, from the perspective of customers, what s so bad about companies giving away their venture-funneled cash  Jet s prices may be the most ambitious. In May, I found the company was vastly undercutting Amazon, and The Wall Street Journal recently ordered a basket of goods from the site for which it calculated that Jet lost nearly $243 on a single order. In an interview, Mr. Lore was unfazed by these numbers, because, he said, they were already built into his projections.  We understand really well what these costs are now and how they ll come down over time, and it s simply a matter of understanding how much capital it s going to take,  he said. In fact, he added, losing money on each order isn t his biggest worry; instead, it s failing to draw enough orders to get to scale.  The hard part is, can you get to $20 billion in five years   The only way to get there, Mr. Lore said, is to keep spending. Whether or not he s right, enjoy it.