Price Is Only One Weapon Amazon Is Using to Win the Cloud War: Remember how a few months ago there was talk of a  price war in the world of cloud computing services  It s over and all the signs point to Amazon having won. As we reported last week, Amazon posted a stunning 81 percent rise in revenue at its Amazon Web Services cloud computing unit, along with a five-fold surge in the unit s operating income, giving it an operating margin of 21 percent. During the quarter Amazon said it cut prices on many of its cloud services for the 49th time since the service launched in 2006. Meanwhile, at least one of Amazon s rivals   Microsoft s cloud computing service Azure   raised some of its prices in Europe and Australia. Portions of emails to Azure customers published by the Dublin-based blogger Aidan Finn earlier this month detailed price increases of 11 percent in Europe and up to 26 percent in Australia. The last time Amazon gave a ballpark estimate for how many customers it had on AWS was late last year when it said it had more than one million active customers. It hasn t updated that figure since then. Whatever the number, it suggests that the average revenue per customer is on the rise. If Amazon s margins are increasing it implies that its operational costs are coming down at the same time that its customer count is going up. Logically speaking, that implies that quality of service might suffer. There s a few reasons that it doesn t, and it has to do with how Amazon s costs come down as it scales up. As Amazon s cloud footprint grows, its fixed costs per customer on things like commodity memory chips and electricity decrease. The more chips and power it buys, the more negotiating leverage it has to squeeze a good deal from suppliers. Meanwhile, business and administrative costs associated with keeping the system running   billing and personnel, for example   shrink as more customers sign on and processes become more efficient. Finally, there s more that those customers can do with AWS all the time. Amazon has added 350 individual new features to AWS in the first half of the year. Two new services include one called AWS Device Farm which allows mobile app developers to run their software on simulated Android mobile phones. At its current pace it will by sometime this fall have added about 700. And the pace at which those features are being added is increasing too. Last year it added 516 new features. The year before that, it was 280, and the year before that 159.