Using Algorithms to Determine Character: A company in Palo Alto, Calif., called Upstart has over the last 15 months lent $135 million to people with mostly negligible credit ratings. Typically, they are recent graduates without mortgages, car payments or credit card settlements. Those are among the things that normally earn a good or bad credit score, but these people haven t been in the working world that long. So Upstart looks at their SAT scores, what colleges they attended, their majors and their grade-point averages. As much as job prospects, the company is assessing personality.  If you take two people with the same job and circumstances, like whether they have kids, five years later the one who had the higher G.P.A. is more likely to pay a debt,  said Paul Gu, Upstart s co-founder and head of product.  It s not whether you can pay. It s a question of how important you see your obligation.  The idea, validated by data, is that people who did things like double-checking the homework or studying extra in case there was a pop quiz are thorough and likely to honor their debts. Analytics, meet judgment of people.  I guess you could call it character, though we haven t used that label,  said Mr. Gu, who is 24. The same personality dynamic holds for people go to great schools or have top grades. Douglas Merrill, the founder and chief executive of ZestFinance, is a former Google executive whose company writes loans to subprime borrowers through nonstandard data signals. One signal is whether someone has ever given up a prepaid wireless phone number. Where housing is often uncertain, those numbers are a more reliable way to find you than addresses; giving one up may indicate you are willing (or have been forced) to disappear from family or potential employers. That is a bad sign. Zest recently branched into  near prime  borrowers, who have either fallen from the prime category or risen from subprime. The question is why these people have changed categories, and Zest tries to figure out if a potentially reliable borrower has had some temporary bad luck, like a one-time medical expense.   Character  is a loaded term, but there is an important difference between ability to pay and willingness to pay,  said Mr. Merrill.  If all you look at is financial transactions, it s hard to say much about willingness. 