Snapchat Founders  Grip Tightened After a Spat With an Early Investor: One of the biggest questions that Snap has faced from potential investors is why its two founders, Evan Spiegel and Bobby Murphy, have retained such a hold on voting power in the company   power that public shareholders will not gain. Exploring that question helps explain how years-ago dealings with venture capitalists helped lead to this point. At the heart of that is a Lightspeed venture capitalist, Jeremy Liew, and the terms he embedded in his 2012 investment in what was then known as Snapchat. The terms gave Mr. Liew outsize power over the company s future financing round. That ended up irking Snapchat s chief executive, Mr. Spiegel, who took steps to reassert control over the company.The end result was a largely severed connection. Today, Lightspeed is listed in Snap s I.P.O. prospectus as the company s second biggest venture investor, with 86.6 million shares, or a stake of more than 8 percent, and Mr. Liew has appeared on television shows, podcasts and in technology publications to discuss Snap. Yet he and Snap no longer have close ties, and Mr. Spiegel has not had meetings or hung out with Mr. Liew since the early investment rounds.Mr. Liew and Mr. Spiegel met in March 2012, when Mr. Liew used Facebook to contact Mr. Spiegel, a Stanford University student who had recently started Snapchat with Mr. Murphy, a fraternity brother. At the meeting that followed, Mr. Spiegel said his father was tired of paying Snapchat s bills. Mr. Liew offered to help. Mr. Liew offered to invest $485,000 in Snapchat, which Mr. Spiegel and Mr. Murphy accepted. The investment was completed in less than two weeks. What Mr. Spiegel and Mr. Murphy paid less attention to were the exact terms that Mr. Liew embedded in the deal. Those terms gave Lightspeed the right of first refusal to invest in a future round of funding and the ability to increase its share of the company that round. Lightspeed could also take 50 percent of the future round. Such terms effectively let Lightspeed have veto power over the next investment at Snap. It also made Snap an unattractive investment for other investors   who would not be able to take as large a stake as they would like in the company.Mr. Spiegel was unhappy with the outcome. Over the years, he has alluded to his early dissatisfaction with venture investors. In a 2015 interview at a start-up awards show, he said,  when we were first getting started and took financing, our lawyers would take us through the documents and they d say,  Oh, don t worry about it. It s all standard.    I ve since learned that standard means either the person who s walking you through documents doesn t understand them or you could be getting taken advantage of,  Mr. Spiegel continued.  When someone says something is standard, just ask why, and why and why and why, until you really understand intricately, I think, how the deal is structured. 