Amazon Reports Unexpected Profit, and Stock Soars; Market Value Exceeds Wal-Mart's: The e-commerce company beloved by Wall Street for its fast-growing ways did something completely out of character in the second quarter: It made a profit. It was only $92 million, practically a rounding error for Google or Apple. But it confirmed all the hopes and expectations of analysts and investors, who immediately pushed Amazon shares up 17 percent in after-hours trading Thursday to $566. Amazon s second-quarter profit amounted to 19 cents a share. A year ago, the company lost 27 cents a share. Analysts had been predicting another loss of 13 cents. Revenue was better than expected, too, up 20 percent to $23.2 billion. That was about $800 million more than forecast. One big contribution to the improved profit and revenue was Amazon Web Services, the cloud computing division whose numbers were broken out for the first time in the first quarter. A.W.S. is the undisputed leader in the sector, outdistancing both Microsoft and Google, but analysts had been wondering if price cuts would hamper growth. Apparently not. A.W.S. revenue rose 81 percent to $1.82 billion from a year ago, even better than it did last quarter. In the first quarter, A.W.S. revenue was up 49 percent. Operating income for the cloud division rose to $391 million from $77 million. No wonder analysts on a conference call with Amazon financial executives offered their congratulations. Amazon hired another 50,000 employees over the last year, increasing its head count by 38 percent. Many of those workers are in its network of more than 100 fulfillment centers. Amazon held a Prime Day sale last week that was a demonstration of Prime s power   and also a few of its problems. Enough shoppers found fault with the selection to create a popular Twitter hashtag, #PrimeDayFail. Michael Pachter, managing director of equity research for Wedbush Securities, estimated Amazon took in $1.5 billion in revenue on Prime Day, versus $250 million for a typical day during the quarter.  That means that they can deliver $1.25 billion of upside by scheduling a flash sale,  he said.  There s no reason that they can t do this once per quarter,  although he noted that no such announcement had been made.