Apple Waits as App Developers Study Who s Buying Its Watch: In the months surrounding the much-ballyhooed release of the Apple Watch, Apple managers courted Facebook in the hopes that the social networking giant would make a software application for the new gadget. Facebook was not persuaded. Three months after the watch s release, there is no Facebook app tailored for it. Adam Mosseri, who oversees Facebook s news feed, said the social network had been studying the Apple Watch but had not figured out how to deliver a good Facebook experience   including the news feed s stream of posts, photos and videos   on such a small screen. The lack of support from Facebook   and from other popular app makers like Snapchat and Google, which also do not have apps for Apple Watch   underscores the skepticism that remains in the technology community about the wearable device. That puts the watch, Apple s first new product since the iPad in 2010, in something of a Catch-22: The companies whose apps would most likely prompt more people to buy the device are waiting to see who is buying it and how they use it. Another challenge with the Apple Watch software system is that apps have to process all the data on the iPhone and then beam it to the watch, limiting what the Apple Watch apps can do. The next version of the software, which will be released in the fall, will remedy this by letting developers write apps that run directly on the watch, relying on the iPhone mostly for the Internet connection. That doesn t mean the Apple Watch lacks apps. Apple released the device in April with more than 3,000 apps   far more than the 500 that were available for the iPhone when the App Store opened in 2008. Yet only five of the 20 most popular free iPhone apps in the United States have versions for the Apple Watch, according to data from App Annie, an analytics firm. And the number of apps for the watch, which now stands at about 7,400, is growing at a slower rate than the explosive uptick of apps that were produced for iPhones and iPads in their early days. While the number of apps for the watch jumped 142 percent in the first three months, that compared to 437 percent for the iPhone and 200 percent for the iPad, according to data provided by App Annie.