Google Shares Rise 11% as CFO Porat Signals She ll Rein In Spending: In the first earnings report for Ruth Porat, the chief financial officer Google lured from Morgan Stanley, Ms. Porat said the company was keeping a closer eye on costs.  People are realizing it s a new era,  said Colin Gillis, an analyst at BGC Financial LP.  She s coming in and she s expressing what investors wanted -- that s there s going to be cost rationalization, a degree of discipline.  The numbers backed her up, with revenue and profits outpacing the expectations of Wall Street. The company reported that revenue rose 11 percent to $17.7 billion from a year earlier, with net revenue   a figure that excludes payments to advertising partners   increasing to $14.35 billion. That was above the $14.28 billion projected by analysts, according to Bloomberg. Google said that absent currency fluctuations, overall revenue would have risen 18 percent from a year ago. Google s cash pile swelled to $70 billion in the second quarter. In the recent quarter, the number of clicks on ads rose 18 percent, compared with a 13 percent increase in the first quarter, while the average cost per click fell 11 percent after dropping 7 percent in the prior period. Google s mobile cost-per-click is climbing, helping to close the gap with desktop ads, Porat said on the call. Watch time on YouTube, the company s video-sharing site, was up 60 percent, with mobile watch time more than doubling, she said. The slower growth in costs, along with suggestions from Ms. Porat that Google will try to be more forthcoming with investors   and may be open to redistributing some of the company s cash pile down the line   suggested a new era of cooperation from a company that has historically had an antagonistic relationship with Wall Street. She confirmed that they are more open to focusing on expense controls, more open to providing new disclosures and more open to potentially returning cash,  said Ben Schachter, an analyst with Macquarie Securities.  Those are the three things people wanted, and she came through.  Analysts like Mr. Schachter were impressed by her investor-friendly tone, and Google shares jumped nearly 11 percent in after-hours trading.