The surprising way smartphones are changing the way we shop: Smartphones and tablets now account for up to 68 percent of the traffic to the videogame chain s Web site, where customers are frequently browsing products and looking up trade-in values for their old games. One thing they re not doing much of on mobile devices  Buying stuff. In fact,  purchasing through that phone probably wouldn t even make the top ten list of engagement activities that they do,  said Jason Allen, the retailer s vice president of multichannel.  We re not overly focused on conversion on mobile, we really see it as a tool to drive traffic in our stores  This reflects a trend seen throughout the industry: While there has been a surge in traffic to retailers' Web sites from smartphones, a proportionately big boom in sales on these gadgets have yet to appear. In other words, for all the time we spend swiping and tapping on our phones, we still aren t especially willing to make purchases on them. At Kohl s, executives say they have spent the last year and a half updating their app, in part to accommodate an in-store shopper who is more frequently searching for product reviews, watching video content about merchandise and sharing their finds on social media. When customers are in Kohl s stores and on the retailer s Wifi network, customers spend more time on the app than when they re not in the store, company officials said. These behaviors have led Kohl s to develop a new  in-store mode  for its app, in which users who walk into a Kohl s store will be asked if they want to use a special version that is tailored for wandering the store. Kohl s declined to say how the in-store mode will be different from its regular app experience, but said it would be available in September. Big-box behemoth Target is also catering to shoppers who are using their phone to guide them through stores with a relaunched app that has a stronger emphasis on a tool that helps them building their weekly shopping list and an interactive map of each store in its fleet. It s easy to see why the company has moved in this direction: Since it installed free WiFi in its stores a few years ago, Target has found that the most-visited site, by far, is the retailer s own Web site. This enthusiastic embrace of in-store phone use might have seemed unthinkable in corners of the retail industry only a few years ago, when many brick-and-mortar chains were panicking about showrooming, the industry term for when shoppers would go to a store to check out merchandise, only to ultimately buy it online for a better price. But that fear has largely dissipated as study after study has shown showrooming is not a huge threat. In fact, several studies have found that the opposite behavior -- browsing online before buying in a physical store -- is more common.