As Google and Microsoft push app developers to reveal their content, coders balk at making apps searchable: The giants of the Web have been pressing developers of mobile apps to index their content so it can be parsed by search engines or linked to from other sites. That s already possible with most Web pages, thanks to pieces of embedded code known as deep links. Imagine a future in which a Google search for a  tulle mini  would call up results from Wish, a fashion app, along with links to e-commerce sites. A Facebook user who wanted to share a recipe for vegan chocolate chip cookies from the Yummly app would be able to post a link that would take viewers to the relevant page instead of forcing them to download the app first. So far, the effort has been a bit like herding cats: Only a few thousand apps a tiny fraction of the millions out there have adopted the competing tech protocols that Google, Facebook, Apple, and others are pushing. Google s pitch to developers is that deep links benefit them by driving more traffic to their apps. The company says traffic on the Yellow Pages and Etsy apps increased by 8 percent and 12 percent, respectively, after they began using Google s indexing. Rajan Patel, a principal engineer at Google, says more than 1,000 apps mainly those designed for its Android mobile operating system but also some for Apple s iOS use its deep linking.  To us, the main advantage that we see coming from this is removing friction not having to find the app on your phone and fire it up,  says Atul Kakkar, principal product manager at Eventbrite, a website that helps people publicize and sell tickets to yoga classes, tech conferences, and other happenings. The company plans to start indexing its app to enable Google searches. Some developers have resisted using deep links because it s costly and laborious to create separate code for each mobile platform. (Android and iOS are the predominant ones.) Inserting the links eats up as much as 5 percent of the time it takes developers to build an app, says Alex Matjanec, managing partner at AD:60, a New York-based ad agency that creates apps for clients.