After weeks of turmoil, China stocks rocket 8 percent at open after weekend rescue moves: China's stock markets rose 8% at the start of a make-or-break week after officials rolled out an unprecedented series of steps at the weekend to prevent a full-blown stock market crash that would threaten the world's second-largest economy. The government is anxiously awaiting the market opening on Monday to see if the new measures will halt a 30 percent plunge in the last three weeks, or if panicky investors who borrowed heavily to speculate on stocks will continue to sell. In an extraordinary weekend of policy moves, brokerages and fund managers vowed to buy massive amounts of stocks, helped by China's state-backed margin finance company which in turn would be aided by a direct line of liquidity from the central bank. China has also orchestrated a halt to new share issues, with dozens of firms scrapping their IPO plans in separate but similarly worded statements over the weekend, in a tactic authorities have used before to support markets. The Shanghai Composite Index had surged more than 150 percent in the 12 months prior to June 12 as investors assessed that monetary stimulus would revive China s economy. Now, those hopes seem to be fading, and Chinese equity markets are plunging. The Shanghai Composite Index fell 5.8 percent Friday, bringing the decline since its June 12 peak to 29 percent. More than $2.8 trillion of value has been erased from the Chinese stock market during that time, an abrupt end to the longest bull market in the nation s history. Stocks entered a bear market on June 29 as leveraged investors headed for the exits; China s securities regulator that day urged investors to be rational. In response, China is suspending initial public offerings, creating a market stabilization fund and telling investors not to panic in an effort to shore up its stock market, which has had the largest three-week drop since 1992. According to company filings to the exchanges Saturday evening, 10 companies will suspend IPOs on the Shanghai Stock Exchange and 18 will do the same at the Shenzen Stock Exchange. Halting IPOs may stem the diversion of funds away from current listings. The move came hours after major Chinese brokerage firms pledged billions of dollars to form a stock market rescue fund.