This Driver in China Explains How He Is Helping Rip Off Uber: James Li was unhappy with his pay as a security guard in Shanghai so he started driving on weekends for Uber. He s almost tripled his pay -- in part by scamming the company. Li, an alias since he feared retribution if his real name was made public, is taking advantage of Uber s efforts to break into the China market. The U.S. car-booking company is spending millions on free rides and driver bonuses, betting the cash will help train China drivers and market Uber services to customers. Instead, people like Li have figured out how to cash in on Uber s largesse without giving anyone a ride. He s part of a cottage industry that has developed so drivers can use modified smartphones and software to place fake bookings and trick Uber into paying out cash for phantom trips. While there are no reliable estimates on how prevalent the scams are, interviews with Uber drivers, equipment vendors and reviews of postings on dedicated online forums suggest at least some of the $1 billion that Uber has pledged to spend to expand the service in China this year is being siphoned off by fake bookings. To create a fake trip, an Uber driver has essentially two options, according to drivers interviewed by Bloomberg. The first is a do-it-yourself option where the driver buys a hacked smartphone that can operate with multiple phone numbers and therefore multiple Uber accounts. Drivers use one number to act as a rider and request a lift, and then accept the trip as a driver with another phone number. The second option involves working with other scammers over the Internet. If a driver doesn t have a hacked phone, he can go into one of several invitation-only online forums and request a fake fare from professional ride-bookers. These bookers are referred to as  nurses  because they use specially tailored software to put an  injection,  or location-specific ride request near the driver. The driver, or  patient,  then makes the trip while the booker monitors remotely, confirms the journey was made and then pays Uber when the trip is complete. The nurse gets a small fee, usually about $1.60, and the reimbursement for the fare from the patient. The driver in turn collects the fare and a driver bonus that can be three times the fare from Uber, which thinks it is building brand awareness by giving away free rides. The drivers interviewed by Bloomberg spoke of a cat-and-mouse game with Uber and the fear of being caught. A recent software upgrade has made it more difficult to successfully game the system, they said.