The Growth Equity In Venture Capital: According to data by Dealogic, tech sector IPOs are off to their slowest start since 2009, totaling just $2.35 billion as compared to last year s total of 62 IPOs valued at approximately $40.8 billion. Companies are now delaying their initial public offerings because they re able to rely on private investors, such as those in the growth-equity sector, to help fund their next round of capital. Private funding is now filling their capital needs faster and making companies more profitable by raising the valuations. In fact, some companies that might have previously gone public in an effort to raise capital are now becoming acquired before ever hitting the public market. The technology industry is booming, and contrary to popular belief, it s not just early-stage venture funding that s steering the ship. Helping to propel this rapid expansion is actually another group of investors that specializes in growing established companies and taking them to the next level, aptly named  growth equity.  In the ecosystem of funding options, growth-equity investors tend to strategically focus on companies with proven technologies and established market adoption   many of which are already generating revenues between $5 million and $100 million. In recent years, growth equity has become its own asset class and is actively followed and monitored by investors. Growth equity enjoys the benefits of investing slightly later down the road in the growth of technology companies, thereby reducing the risk of future financing rounds, while at the same time avoiding the seniority of leverage utilized by private equity firms. The risk-adjusted results of this asset class indicate that better returns can be generated with lower associated risk. Additionally, growth-equity investors tend to be much more hands-on and often occupy seats on the boards of their portfolio companies. This helps to control and lessen the risk associated with investing at this stage. In some instances, growth-equity investors help provide liquidity to founding partners who might have been working for years with little to no return. They also offer the necessary guidance to structure growth-oriented deals that require more complex maneuvers, such as funding mergers and acquisitions.