Tesla CFO retires; Firm Will Start Delivering Model X SUV in 3 to 4 Months, Says Elon Musk;  Tesla Motors  will begin deliveries of the Model X sport utility vehicle in three to four months, keeping close to the timeline the electric-car maker laid out earlier this year, Chief Executive Officer Elon Musk said.  The Model X will be a better SUV than the Model S is a sedan,  Musk, 43, said Tuesday at Tesla s annual shareholders meeting, held at the Computer History Museum in Mountain View, California. Musk said he s been driving the latest prototype of the Model X, which Tesla first unveiled as a concept in February 2012 and previously sought to have ready by the end of 2014. More recently, Tesla told investors that initial deliveries to customers, several of whom have been waiting for more than three years, would begin late in the third quarter. Car-based SUVs are popular among female drivers, and in a January interview with Bloomberg, Musk said that the Model X is drawing more than half its orders from women. This is a contrast from the predominantly male customer base for its Model S sedan and the Roadster, which the Palo Alto, California-based company no longer sells. Tesla is also working on the Model 3, to be released in 2017 with a starting price of roughly $35,000. In addition, the company is readying another software upgrade for the Model S, including so-called autopilot driver-assist technology, and  may be able to get it out to early-access customers by the end of this month,  Musk said. Musk has said the company probably won t turn net income positive until annual sales reach 500,000.  I expect we ll achieve profitability in 2020,  he said. Musk is by far Tesla s largest shareholder with 22 percent. He said in February that at the rate it s growing, if all goes right, Tesla in a decade could be worth as much as Apple Inc., the world s largest company by market valuation, is now. Musk also said CFO Deepak Ahuja will retire at the end of this year. Ahuja has been Tesla s CFO since 2008, coming from Ford Motor and seeing Tesla through its June 2010 initial public offering. He said he s retiring to pursue other life goals.