At the 11th annual Internet Retailer Conference and Exhibition in Chicago: Doing E-Commerce While Avoiding Amazon. US e-commerce is showing the first signs of maturing as a business. Figures from the research firm eMarketer show the rate of domestic growth falling from 16.5 percent in 2013 to 14.2 percent this year to 11.6 percent in 2018. By that point, e-commerce in the United States will still be less than 10 percent of all retail. The death of the physical store, so widely anticipated in the last few years, is nowhere in sight. One increasingly popular technique: allowing the customer to name his price. Members of PriceWaiter were doling out snacks and explaining how letting customers of a website decide how much they are willing to pay (within, to be sure, a narrow range) works out for both parties.  The merchants win by keeping the sale, and the customer gets a psychological victory   it feels like a win,  Another customer retention method, this one somewhat more fraught with peril: Put reviews on your site. This, of course, is an attempt to take away or at least neutralize one of the features that drove Amazon s initial success.  Reviews instill trust in your brand and keep the customer coming back,  said Alex Rosen of PowerReviews, a back-end platform to making reviewing easier. He added that brands like to know, must know, when they are getting bad reviews. But strong indeed is the brand that will keep bad reviews on its own site. If many of the exhibitors at IRCE were trying to avoid Amazon, a few were taking it on directly. Justin Singletary said he spent $500,000 a few years ago to buy the Fulfillment.com web domain from eBay.  We saw a void in the marketplace   an opening to take care of the merchants themselves rather than the merchant s customers,  he said. Asked who the merchants were, he demurred, saying they operated under nondisclosure agreements.With about 60 employees and one domestic warehouse, Fulfillment.com is still an early-stage start-up. Newegg, founded way back in 2001, is by comparison practically an institution. It says it is the second-largest online retailer in North America, with 28 million registered customers, about a tenth of Amazon s.  Amazon wants to do everything,  said a spokeswoman, Claire Lin.  We want to be really good at one thing: selling tech products. 