SEO for Images: Amazon, eBay and Google Shopping policies on Images. Amazon Suppresses Listings Without Images. The online world is becoming more and more image-centric. For retailers, images are an essential way to stand out from the crowd and attract shoppers across online channels. Good pictures are now a prerequisite on many marketplaces, and failing to comply with image requirements could lead to a drop in visibility or even suppressed listings. Amazon requires you to include an image with your listing, otherwise the listing will be suppressed from search and browse bars (which would make it very difficult to find). Shoppers would have to search using the product s actual code rather than via search terms or browse nodes. To meet Amazon s image requirements, your products must appear as close to reality as possible, meaning no props or accessories that don t come with the product. Text, inset images, watermarks and logos are all no-go s, too. Items must be pictured on a white background, with the product taking up most of the background space (ideally 85%). Pictures must be at least 500 pixels on one side to enable users to zoom in. We suggest going a step further and making your images at least 1600 pixels on the longest side for optimum quality. If you need help creating images with white backgrounds, try apps like Remove the Background.EBay Requires You to Have at Least One Image Per Listing. EBay requires images to be at least 500 pixels on the longest side (again, 1600 is better). Like Amazon, eBay asks for clean images without any text or artwork. Unlike Amazon, however, eBay does allow you to add watermarks, but only for distribution   not marketing   purposes. Watermarks should be no bigger than 5% of the total image area, have an opacity of no more than 50% and never obscure the item. Links from watermarks are also prohibited. You can no longer use stock images for your listings so as not to confuse buyers about the quality of the items. You can use eBay picture hosting to optimize your listing for mobile buyers. With eBay picture hosting, you can include up to 12 pictures in your listing, which will be visible on a variety of mobile platforms. EBay picture hosting can handle images of up to 7MB. Just remember not to compress your images before uploading. Google Shopping adverts rely heavily on product images, so making your photos great is essential for differentiating your items from the competition. Take images on a white, grey or light-color background and use images that are a minimum of 800 pixels so they look clear on high-resolution displays.