Warning: Some Unicorns May Be Smaller Than They Appear.Protections for Late Investors Can Inflate Start-Up Valuations. The recent proliferation of so-called unicorns   start-up technology companies valued at more than $1 billion   has been greeted variously as a sign of healthy innovation or an indication that valuations have become dangerously overheated. Led by the likes of the car-hailing service Uber at $41 billion and the home-rental website Airbnb at $10 billion, the global ranks of unicorns have more than doubled, to 102, over the last 15 months, according to PitchBook Data, which tracks private financial markets. Less noticed is that the reported valuations of many unicorns have been inflated by the terms of the private investments that set those valuations before any initial public offerings of stock   often with little or no disclosure of those terms. Increasingly, venture investors say, late-stage financing terms include extra protections, like a discount to the price of any eventual initial offering, a minimum return on investment or extra shares if the company later raises money at a lower valuation. Such protections are controversial among start-up investors. Early-stage investors warn they can jeopardize a company s financial stability, diluting the value of their original stakes and worsening a company s prospects in a downturn. But the protections appeal to company founders because they provide new cash at the highest nominal valuation, reducing dilution if all goes well. And later-stage investors argue that they provide valuable insurance. The protections, known among investors as structuring or ratcheting, can inflate a unicorn s indicated valuation 10 percent to 25 percent and the phenomenon has been part of a general  frothiness  in late-stage valuations. Since the start of 2014, 11 technology companies have priced their initial offerings below the investment price of the last financing rounds before the offerings. In addition to Box, they include the software providers Apigee and Globant and the big-data manager Hortonworks. In addition, it was estimated that that more than two-fifths of venture-backed technology companies had fallen below their initial offering price in the same period.