Remittances at the Click of a Smartphone Button are disrupting traditional players like Western Union: A growing shift is taking place in how people send money to each other around the world. While the likes of Western Union have offered international money transfers for decades, new tech start-ups and traditional telecom operators are taking advantage of the rapid rise of smartphones in many emerging economies to reduce the barriers   and costs   of sending cash overseas. Analysts say the changes are shaking up the global remittance market, which will be valued at almost $600 billion this year, according to the World Bank. New technology, for example, has helped cut the price of sending traditional remittances in half, to an average of $4 for sending $100, according to the GSMA, a telecom trade body. Sending money can take just a few minutes. Individuals log into the companies  online services either through a computer or   increasingly   a smartphone. They enter the recipients  details and their own bank details, and submit the request. Transactions typically take less than a few hours, compared with several days for traditional remittance companies. Recipients receive a text message when the money is available for pickup or has been credited to their mobile money account. Because the operations are automated and don t rely on outdated systems, operators can offer international remittances at cheaper rates. To send the money, people only need to type in another person s cellphone number into their phone s mobile money service, enter a password and confirm the transaction. These sort of mobile payments have not caught on in many Western countries. But mobile money is now a fixture across large parts of the developing world. With limited access to traditional bank accounts, people have often turned to services like M-Pesa   a mobile money offering from Vodafone, the European telecom giant   as the de facto method to pay for goods and send money to friends and family.