Facebook Launches Facebook Lite - A Stripped Down Android App For The Developing World: Today, Facebook is launching a bare-bones, low-resolution version of its Android app that works well on crummy networks or outdated phones, and burns much less data than its normal smartphone apps. It will roll out today in Asia, and come to parts of Latin America, Africa, and Europe in the coming weeks. Facebook Lite is designed specifically for the developing world to help the social network on-board its next billion users. Facebook Lite doesn t offer data-intensive features like videos or Nearby Friends. But if users are willing to accept that and lower-resolution image thumbnails, they can access Facebook quick, smooth, and cheap from the most remote corners of the planet. Roughly a year back, that s when we realized that our current Facebook experiences needed a lot more work, specifically in emerging markets and more specifically where networks are bad  Facebook Lite s product manager Vijay Shankar tells me. So Facebook set out on two parallel paths. First, it would try optimize its flagship apps to load faster with less data. It s already shrunk down its main Android app. Second, Shankar tells me  We floated another idea. What if we were building this from scratch for emerging markets  How do we completely re-architect this   Rather than imagine what the problems in these areas were, Shankar says  we did a lot of research on the ground and spent a lot of time in Africa, and India and Indonesia.  The team discovered the solution would need three things: One, to work on any Android phone, regardless of storage space, RAM, and CPU. Two, to load fast even on 2G mobile connections, which is what 4 billion people on earth are stuck with. Three, to use as little data as possible, as the prohibitive cost of data plans is actually the largest barrier to Internet usage, not network access. The main way Facebook makes the app use less data is by never pre-loading full-resolution images. Photos and link preview thumbnails in the News Feed appear a bit grainy at first. They ll load in full-res if tapped, but Facebook only wants to do those big data pulls if people volunteer for them. If you try to post a photo to Facebook Lite, the app compresses the image and then sends it in the background, so its small and you don t have to spend the wait time staring at the screen.  Every roundtrip to the server is painful  Shankar says, so  we re very careful about what features and experiences we offer in the app.  There will be some ads, but several of Facebook s top formats like app install ads won t be in Facebook Lite. Advertisers might not love the idea of their creative assets being compressed into low-res. But otherwise, users would probably scroll past them before they even load. Today, Facebook Lite begins its official global rollout. At under 1 megabyte in size, Shankar says it can be downloaded in seconds for cheap on even slow 2G connections. I played with it for a few minutes, and was surprised by how slick and full-featured it was despite the compromises.