Alibaba has tied up with China's largest loan restructurer to sell bad debt online. Alibaba will cooperate with the biggest state-owned loan restructurer to dispose of more than 4 billion yuan ($645 million) of non-performing assets on its online shopping platform Taobao. China Cinda Asset Management, which announced the tieup with Ma last week, saw profits rise 32 percent to a record in 2014. China s non-performing loans climbed by an unprecedented 140 billion yuan in the first quarter to 982.5 billion yuan, the most since 2008 and almost the size of Vietnam s economy. UBS and Standard Chartered are among companies that bought stakes in Cinda before its 2013 public share sale as a stepping stone into the distressed asset market. Cinda s market value of $23 billion is now larger than KKR s $19.1 billion. Cinda already sold two bad loans on Alibaba s retail site Taobao in April for a combined 24.5 million yuan, according to a China Banking Regulatory Commission statement at the time. Four more were auctioned last month for 31.4 million yuan. One of the soured loans auctioned in May was originally from Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. with a clothing company in the eastern Zhejiang province as the debtor. Cinda disclosed details such as the name of the borrower, the principal amount, accrued interest and guarantors of the loan on Taobao. Bidders were advised to look at the loan documents and check the collaterals before auction. Both individuals as well as institutions were allowed to bid.  Alibaba s online loan auction platform broadens the investor base for bad loans and therefore will lead to better price discovery for distressed assets,  said Liao Qiang, a banking analyst at Standard & Poor s in Beijing. The legal complexities involved in unwinding such debts and the need to divulge information publicly may limit growth in online auctions, according to KPMG s Gleave.  Alibaba s auction site is just a market place,  he said.  Whether that s a good way to trade bad debts is still to be seen. 