Tech boom lures Indian engineers back home: Kunal Bahl's American dream was coming together in late 2007. He had Ivy League degrees in business and engineering, a debut job at Microsoft Corp. and a roadmap to the career he d always wanted in Silicon Valley. Then his application for a U.S. visa was rejected and he was kicked out the country. Lucky for him. Back in India, he got over the shock and founded a company in New Delhi with a childhood friend. Today Snapdeal.com is one of the most highly valued startups in the world s third-largest economy, valued at about $5 billion. The 31-year-old is one of the thousands of a generation of engineers and entrepreneurs who quit America for home   some by choice, some because of U.S. immigration barriers   to find a technology industry with more green-field opportunities than Silicon Valley. Many Indians aren t leaving at all, or are going to the U.S. for degrees from Harvard and Stanford with no plans to stay after graduation. India's booming startup culture probably wouldn t feel any affects if the H-1B floodgates suddenly opened. The super-growth potential these days is east, not west. While only about 19 percent of Indians are connected to the Internet, their numbers are mushrooming. Economic output is expanding at an annual rate of more than 7 percent, and by some projections the country's population will reach 1.6 billion to surpass China s by 2050. India is hard to resist. Google engineering executives Peeyush Ranjan and Punit Soni recently left the company and California for home, moving to Bangalore to join Flipkart, India's largest e-commerce company and Snapdeal s main domestic rival. Namita Gupta departed Facebook for Zomato, a restaurant-search service based in New Delhi. The trend is a dramatic shift from the 1980s and 1990s, when a graduate education and employment in the U.S. were the brass rings for engineers like Satya Nadella, Microsoft's chief executive officer. Now for anyone interested in programming or e-commerce or mobile-device apps, India "is like the late 1990s in the U.S.," says Bahl. Venture capitalists and hedge funds are swooping in with aims to profit on startups like Snapdeal. Venture financing in Indian tech companies hit $1.9 billion in the fourth quarter, almost six times the $325 million in the year-earlier period, according to CB Insights. Hedge funds, investment firms and asset managers have pumped $3.8 billion into 26 Indian tech startups since the beginning of last year, according to data compiled by Bengaluru-based Tracxn. "Investors are writing big checks even by Valley standards." 