The history of the Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) - the long life of a quick fix: Internet protocol  from 1989 leaves data vulnerable to hijackers:  Short-term solutions tend to stay with us for a very long time. And long-term solutions tend to never happen.   Such is the story of the  three-napkins protocol,  more formally known as Border Gateway Protocol, or BGP. At its most basic level, BGP helps routers decide how to send giant flows of data across the vast mesh of connections that make up the Internet. With infinite numbers of possible paths   some slow and meandering, others quick and direct   BGP gives routers the information they need to pick one, even though there is no overall map of the Internet and no authority charged with directing its traffic. The creation of BGP, which relies on individual networks continuously sharing information about available data links, helped the Internet continue its growth into a worldwide network. But BGP also allows huge swaths of data to be  hijacked  by almost anyone with the necessary skills and access. The main reason is that BGP, like many key systems on the Internet, is built to automatically trust users   something that may work on smaller networks but leaves a global one ripe for attack. Hijackings have become routine events that even experts struggle to explain: What made traffic between two computers in Denver take a 7,000-mile detour through Iceland  How could a single Pakistani company crash YouTube  Why did potentially sensitive Pentagon data once flow through Beijing  To these questions, there are technical answers. But they all boil down to this fact: BGP runs on the honor system, allowing data to get pushed and pulled across the planet in curious ways, at the behest of mysterious masters. In 1989, when BGP was devised, the big issue of the day was the possibility that the Internet might break down. A halt in its furious expansion would have hurt the network s users and the profits of companies supplying gear and services. Rekhter at the time worked for computing giant IBM; Lougheed was a founding employee of Cisco, maker of networking hardware.  We needed to sell routers. And we had a strong economic motive to make sure this party would continue,  Lougheed said.  When Yakov and I showed up with a solution and it seemed to work, people were quite willing to accept it because they didn t have anything else.  There were other efforts underway to build routing protocols. BGP won out because it was simple, solved the problem at hand and proved versatile enough to keep data flowing as the Internet doubled in size, again and again and again. Networks across the world embraced the protocol, giving it an edge it has never relinquished. Once technologies are widely deployed, they become almost impossible to replace because many users   including paying customers of technology companies   rely on them and resist buying costly new hardware or software. The result can be a steady buildup of outdated technology, one layer on top of another. It s as if today s most important bank vaults sit on foundations of straw and mud.