Intel is close to clinching a takeover of fellow chip maker Altera for more than $15 billion, the latest sign of consolidation in the semiconductor industry. Intel is expected to pay about $54 a share for Altera, whose specialized chip designs would help Intel expand beyond chips for personal computers. An agreement could be announced as early next week, though sources cautioned that talks are continuing and might still collapse. The two sides had been in talks already this year, though the discussions were eventually delayed when Altera rejected an offer in the ballpark of $54 a share. But after the talks ended, Altera reported quarterly earnings that fell below expectations. Meanwhile, one investor, TIG Advisors, began to publicly campaign for a resumption of talks with Intel. If completed, a takeover would be the latest among chip makers as companies seek larger scale and more diversified offerings. Growing and having more products can give those manufacturers greater savings and negotiating leverage with customers. On Thursday, Avago Technologies struck a roughly $37 billion acquisition of Broadcom to break into the top tier of semiconductor companies. Intel and Altera both make semiconductors, but vastly different types. Intel is known primarily for the standard chips that go into personal computers and computer servers. They consist of millions of transistors, and once created, their performance can be adjusted only slightly by changing the software that works with them. Altera s chips   known as field programmable gate arrays, or F.P.G.A.s   are lower in power and performance but can be altered after manufacturing to carry out different functions. That gives them far greater flexibility. Intel may be seeking Altera to create computers that combine the power of a standard semiconductor with the flexibility of an F.P.G.A., by means of a board with both types of chip. This could potentially give Intel the ability to build, for example, a computer server that can add functions so it lasts longer inside a corporate data center. This move would reflect several recent trends in the industry. Giant cloud computing centers have become an increasingly large part of Intel s business, made even more significant as smartphones have lowered the demand for  Intel Inside  personal computers. Intel now has dedicated sales teams working with big chip consumers, like Amazon.com, that tell the company its specific computing needs for its giant cloud systems. In addition, Intel is now concentrating on at least 200 companies that are building significant computing clouds. Adding F.P.G.A.s might be a good way to help companies customize those data centers.