Social Networking App Path Sells Itself To Korean Messaging Heavyweight Daum Kakao. It isn t often that a company in Asia acquires a U.S. rival, particularly one that has surfed a wave of hype in Silicon Valley. But that s exactly what happened this week after Path announced the sale of its flagship app to Korea s Daum Kakao. The deal is undisclosed, but, as a real acquisition involving two consumer messaging apps, it is notable, particularly as the mobile messaging space transitions from a period of hyper growth to one of consolidation and services. Most people interested in tech are familiar with Path. The five-year-old service burst onto the scene as a beautifully designed, mobile-first alternative to Facebook with a number of features to set it apart from the social network.  Ultimately, Path didn t break out of Silicon Valley and go mainstream in the U.S., but it did make inroads in Asia   particularly in Indonesia. The company is said to have 23 million registered users, four million of whom are in the Southeast Asia country, as of October last year. Path began to focus more intently on Asia with its redesign in 2013, while it took money from Indonesia s Bakrie Global Group as part of a $25 million Series C last year. Daum Kakao is less known, particularly in the U.S.. The organization was formed when Korean internet firm Daum merged with domestic messaging app company Kakao in a $2.9 billion deal last year. The company s Kakao Talk app is perhaps the best example of how a messaging app has impacted media and internet distribution   which is where the trend is moving in the U.S. and other countries. Though it has a small global presence   its 160 million registered userbase is far lower than key rivals   the app is installed on over 95 percent of smartphones in its native Korea, where it offers free texts and calls, games, a payment service, taxi-hailing and more. The 2015 Mary Meeker internet trends report, released this week, ranked Kakao Talk as the top messaging app worldwide based on user engagement. Another indicator of its stickiness is that its games business utterly dominates Korea s iOS and Android app stores, according to data from App Annie. Indonesia is the largest country in Southeast Asia with a population of over 250 million. It was well-known for being the last major market where BlackBerry had any kind of mainstream presence but that s changed now. The rise of affordable Android smartphones   particularly glamorous sub-$300 devices from the likes of Xiaomi   sent BlackBerry s sales plummeting. But, the result of BlackBerry s years of dominance is that there is no single messaging app that dominates Indonesia. That s unlike other parts of Asia   China (WeChat), India, Singapore and Malaysia (WhatsApp), Japan, Thailand and Taiwan (Line), Philippines (Viber)   where the leadership has been established. With a large population up for grabs and the sizable following that Path enjoys in the country, Daum Kakao is buying itself a larger chunk of the market with this deal. It may also bolster its presence in other parts of Asia, where Daum Kakao claimed Path has 10 million registered users.