Netflix, for better or worse, has become the symbol for net neutrality, which has become a key issue in how regulators analyze proposed cable and telecom mergers. To many in the cable and broadband businesses, the invisible hand of Netflix has been apparent in the failed Comcast-Time Warner Cable combination; in likely restrictions on the merger between AT&T and DirecTV; and in the Obama administration s embrace of net neutrality, to cite just three prominent examples. A pivotal moment in the net neutrality struggle came last year when Netflix agreed to pay Comcast so-called interconnection fees, a deal that Netflix s Mr. Hastings last month called a  deal with the devil.  (While Comcast has drawn the brunt of Mr. Hastings s ire, Netflix also reached similar interconnection deals with every other major Internet service provider.) But securing payment from Netflix for fast and more reliable access may have been a Pyrrhic victory for Comcast and the other the broadband providers. Until then the notion of net neutrality had been something of an abstraction. But when Netflix subscribers found their programs constantly interrupted for  buffering  (an interruption to download more data), the ability of Internet providers to play favorites seemed all too real. Once Netflix started paying fees to Comcast, its customers suddenly found their service improved substantially. Netflix s experience with Comcast became Exhibit A with the F.C.C. when Netflix opposed the proposed Comcast-Time Warner Cable merger.  The combined company would possess even more anti-competitive leverage to charge arbitrary interconnection tolls for access to their customers,  Netflix said in a letter to shareholders opposing the merger. It probably didn t hurt Netflix s case that just about everyone in Washington watches the hit Netflix series  House of Cards,  and Comcast is the dominant Internet provider there. Tom Wheeler, the F.C.C. chairman, said he, too, had suffered buffering problems, which he called  exasperating.  