As usual, a slew of announcements at Google I/O: Google introduced technologies ranging from a brand new mobile-payments system to a virtual-reality camera rig in front of more than 6,000 software engineers at the Web company's I/O developer's conference in San Francisco. A security makeover for Android: Android M: The next iteration of Google's operating system, which runs on 79 percent of smartphones around the globe, is getting a security makeover, with more robust privacy controls and restrictions on apps' data access. Fingerprint scanning will also become a more integral part of Android, adding another layer of security. Google plays catch-up in virtual reality with Cardboard: Of all the gadgets Google unveiled at last year s event, Google Cardboard was a surprise hit, putting virtual reality into the hands of everyday users without the high costs that come with specialized devices, such the Oculus Rift. Now, Google is taking the gadget more seriously, seeing it as a way to catch up to Facebook and Microsoft  in virtual reality. It's also a way to get affordable, wow-factor technology into more peoples' hands, drawing them closer to Google's  Web-based services. Unlimited free storage on Google Photos: While it might seem like a minor upgrade, Google just solved a major problem for mobile users in one fell swoop by enabling unlimited free storage for photos and videos. Google Take Maps Offline: With all the talk of cloud services and streaming media, it's easy to forget that for many people around the world, a mobile data connection is a scarce, expensive resource. To make such existing products as Maps better suited to these customers, Google is adding both search and turn-by-turn directions to the app's offline mode. An OS for the Internet of Things in Project Brillo: Google unveiled Project Brillo, a set of technologies to connect more household items to the Web. The platform aims to make it simpler for developers to build applications for everyday devices. 