Google's announcements on Android Pay and Google Wallet pit it squarely against Apple once again: Google lays out its ambitions for your phone, your home, your car and your wallet: Google made clear Thursday that it's still fighting a multifront war against its old rival, Apple -- and that the battles are as heated as ever. Google on Thursday confirmed the arrival of Android Pay and a revamped Google Wallet, an overhaul of the company s mobile payments products. Both products are a shift from the company s past mobile commerce efforts, which largely flopped. The new services, like the world of payments in general, are not simple. Here is how they work. Android Pay is essentially a digital payments system that consumers can use to buy things online or in stores from retailers and others who also use the service. It works almost the same way that Apple Pay, Apple s mobile payments product, functions both in online and offline transactions. To use Android Pay, smartphone users with up-to-date versions of the Android operating system will be able to load Visa, MasterCard, American Express or Discover cards onto their phones. From there, they will be able to wave the phone over the terminals in more than 700,000 stores around the United States to pay for items. Android Pay will also work inside mobile apps from participating developers. Google will use a technology called tokenization to provide merchants with a customer s payment information without having to hand over their actual credit card number. As with Apple Pay, Google will let customers verify their identity using their fingerprint, a technique which will be built into the next version of Android. Android Pay will also integrate with loyalty programs from a handful of retail partners, which will mean that any points or credits earned at  the point of sale will automatically be added to any loyalty card a customer enters. To date, Apple Pay does not offer this service, an issue that many merchants have asked for privately. Apple plans to discuss its loyalty integration plans at the company s developer conference next month. Google Wallet, the company s unsuccessful attempt at a mobile wallet, is not going away. It is just going to serve another purpose. Google Wallet is being reintroduced as a peer-to-peer payments app, which is a way for customers to quickly and easily transfer money to each other s debit or bank accounts. That once again pits Google against PayPal, which offers its own popular peer-to-peer payments app called Venmo. It also clashes with Square Cash, yet another peer-to-peer payments app offered by Square. Such services have become popular with younger users. Now all Google, Apple and PayPal have to do is persuade consumers that these new payment methods are better than paying the same way they have always done   smartphone-free.