In Bid to Revive Itself, EBay to Roll Out Cost-Per-Sale Ads for Web Merchants: EBay Inc. is introducing ads that merchants will pay for only if they lead to actual sales, seeking new revenue opportunities for the online marketplace before a planned split from the PayPal payments division. The service, called Promoted Listings, will let EBay sellers specify what percent of a product s sale price they re willing pay in order to run an advertisement. The higher the percentage, the more prominent the ad will be, although EBay will also consider a product s popularity and the seller s reputation. The cost-per-sale approach is unusual because websites risk running ads that don t generate revenue. Instead, most companies, such as Google Inc., rely on cost-per-click ads, which charge marketers each time someone clicks on a link. EBay s new ad offering will help smaller merchants, which make up the bulk of the company s 25 million sellers, because they won t have to track the effectiveness of ads or pay before a sale, according to Alex Linde, EBay s vice president of advertising and monetization.  This way, there s no upfront risk for the seller,  Linde said.  The only lever these sellers had in the past was price, and nobody wants to grow only by discounting.  While Linde didn t specify any revenue goals for promoted-listing ads, he said EBay s extensive data on consumers and sellers will help it direct ads to the most likely buyers.  It s risky to guarantee a return on an ad,  said Lauren Fisher, an analyst at EMarketer Inc.  They could end up giving away a lot of advertising.  The advertising push is part of a larger effort to reinvigorate EBay s e-commerce business, which is lagging behind the rest of the industry. Colin Sebastian, an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co., sees marketplace revenue falling 4 percent to $6.7 billion, while EMarketer predicts that global e-commerce sales will rise 21 percent to $1.59 trillion in 2015. Advertising hasn t been a priority for EBay in the past. Ad revenues are lumped into a segment that brought in $2.76 billion last year. Most of that came from banner ads promoting brands, rather than particular products. Promoted Listings will be rolled out gradually, starting in June with a few hundred sellers in the U.S., U.K., Australia and Germany. EBay also plans to come up with ways for larger merchants to promote special deals more effectively, Linde said.