In Freewheeling Interview Snapchat CEO Outlines Monetization Plans, Talks Tech Bubble, IPO: Evan Spiegel is the co-founder, chief executive officer, and profane enfant terrible behind one of the largest and fastest-growing social networks on the Internet. At 24, he runs a startup with 330 employees and a valuation north of $15 billion, which claims more than 100 million mostly young users. He s also incredibly secretive about his business plans and an unknown (and arguably underestimated) figure in the intersecting gossip circles of Silicon Valley and Hollywood. Now he s ready to talk about a major turning point for his company. More than three years after Spiegel founded Snapchat at Stanford with his fraternity brother, Bobby Murphy, 26, he s trying to turn it into a real business. After starting to run select video ads earlier this year, Snapchat is about to begin soliciting other big advertisers with some new numbers that assert its audience is bigger, younger, and more obsessive than anything on television. In a 23-page sales pitch it s sending to ad agencies this month, the company says more than 60 percent of 13- to 34-year-old smartphone users in the U.S. are active on the service and together view more than 2 billion videos a day. That s already about half the number of videos people watch on Facebook, which is seven years older and has 10 times as many members. The service isn t accessible on the conventional Web, only via smartphones, and a central tenet of the company is that video and photos should take up the entire smartphone screen. He  believes his audience is young people on mobile,  Lasky says,  and he does not believe that the audience is being appropriately serviced by the existing Silicon Valley elites.  Actual teen behavior tells a slightly different story. Seventy-one percent of all U.S. teens age 13 to 17 use Facebook, while only 4 in 10 use Snapchat, according to a study this year by the Pew Research Center. And Snapchat s rivals aren t sitting still. Twitter has acquired the video-sharing services Periscope and Vine, and Facebook has another way it taps young Internet users the photo-sharing service Instagram, which it acquired in 2012. Half of all teens use Instagram, according to Pew. Snapchat may have overestimated the pull it has with advertisers. It started its program by charging about $100 per 1,000 views, or more than $750,000 for a day-long campaign, more than double the rates of YouTube or Hulu. Big advertisers with large experimental budgets chalked the rate up to research and development costs and fell in line, just to be first with a chance at wooing a millennial audience. Occasionally the ads do find a satisfying symbiosis with the content. Earlier this month, for example, spots from Coca-Cola and the jobs site Indeed.com congratulated students in ads that were interspersed in daily stories culled from snaps on college campuses during graduation day. Snapchat may have overestimated the pull it has with advertisers. It started its program by charging about $100 per 1,000 views, or more than $750,000 for a day-long campaign, more than double the rates of YouTube or Hulu. Big advertisers with large experimental budgets chalked the rate up to research and development costs and fell in line, just to be first with a chance at wooing a millennial audience. Occasionally the ads do find a satisfying symbiosis with the content. Earlier this month, for example, spots from Coca-Cola and the jobs site Indeed.com congratulated students in ads that were interspersed in daily stories culled from snaps on college campuses during graduation day. 