Smartphone  Cold War  Seen in Asian Moves on Patent Licensing: South Korea and China are adopting antitrust policies that may require companies such as Apple  and Qualcomm  to license inventions to rivals more easily and cheaply, potentially giving Asian companies a leg up against foreign competitors. Brazil and India are considering similar paths. The clampdown on patents has the potential to alter the balance of power in the global mobile-phone industry, which generated $412 billion last year, according to IDC. These new rules may weaken the ability of Apple, Microsoft Corp. and Qualcomm -- typically among the top 15 U.S. patent recipients each year -- to compete in China, the world s largest mobile-phone market, and other countries that follow.  We re going back to the Cold War and the domino theory,  said Bradley Lui, an antitrust lawyer with Morrison & Foerster in Washington.  The authorities in China see the potential use of patents that might affect companies in China, including state-owned enterprises. It might be an impetus for drawing rules more broadly than we would in the U.S.  Asian regulators were spurred by the smartphone wars, in which tech giants battled over billions of dollars on four continents for more than four years. Foreign governments including Korea and China have been looking more closely at their patent policies, emboldened by debates in Washington over whether patents hinder rather than spur innovation. Qualcomm, which got 63 percent of profit from patents last year, has been investigated on three continents for its licensing practices. It struck a deal with China in February that gives domestic Chinese manufacturers a discount on the royalty charges while fining the company $975 million. Microsoft s purchase of Nokia Oyj s handset business has been approved by every country except Korea, which is looking for concessions on some of Nokia patents. In China, Microsoft had to accept lower royalties for patents that read on Google's Android operating system, which runs most of the world s phones including those made by Chinese manufacturer ZTE. The Redmond, Washington-based company simply excluded Korean assets -- where it didn t have many sales anyway -- from the Nokia deal.