As Facebook Sweeps Across Europe, Regulators Gird for Battle: Move over, Google. Facebook is the latest American tech giant that Europeans love to hate. For decades, European policy makers have taken aim at America s giant tech businesses, trying to force them to play by European rules. In the past, Microsoft and Intel were found guilty of abusing their dominant positions to shut out rivals. Google has most recently been under the microscope, and it now faces accusations that it unfairly promoted some of its search products over those of competitors. In recent months, though, regulators  gazes have turned to Facebook, raising questions about whether the social network has learned from the past mistakes of companies like Intel, Microsoft and Google when dealing with Europe s policy makers and its legal system. And as Facebook runs into an increasing number of regulatory hurdles here, the scrutiny could potentially distract the company from its ambitions of becoming a one-stop shop for Internet messaging, online publishing and digital advertising. Facebook s core business, its social networking service, is especially popular in Europe. The company has almost doubled its number of European users to the service, to around 260 million, since 2010. Facebook also has more users in Europe than in the United States, according to eMarketer, a research company. Regulators in Europe, however, are especially focused on how the company collects and handles those users  data. The region has some of the world s toughest data protection rules, and policy makers from France, Germany and Belgium are investigating whether Facebook broke Europe s laws after the company announced a new privacy policy this year. If found to have breached the privacy rules, Facebook may face fines or demands that it change how the company handles people s data, though the company says it complies with the region s data protection laws. Taking a page from the playbooks of other American tech companies, Facebook has not stood idle as regulators steadily lined up against it. The company has hired a number of prominent former lawmakers and regulators, including Erika Mann, a former German member of the European Parliament. This month, the company also chose Kevin Martin, a former chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, to champion its cause in Washington, Brussels and beyond. Facebook increased spending on lobbying 25 percent, to roughly $570,000, in 2013 compared to the previous year, according the latest figures available from the European Union s voluntary database of lobbying interests, which may not include all of Facebook s activities in the region.