Chinese E-Commerce Giant JD Leads $70M Round In Online Produce Retailer FruitDay: Chinese e-commerce site JD.com is putting its money into fresh fruit and vegetables after it led a $70 million Series C round in FruitDay, a company that sells fresh produce across China. The investment in six-year-old FruitDay, which claims to be China s largest online produce firm, also included participation from previous backers Susquehanna International Group (SIG) and ClearVue. FruitDay imports over 80 percent of its produce from overseas, and it claimed to be on course to hit 10 million customers before the end of the year   up fourfold from last year. The company said in a statement that it will use the new capital to develop its infrastructure and logistics, hire new management and for general business development. It stands to benefit from more than just JD.com s money through this alliance, however, since the duo have agreed to  a strategic cooperation  which will allow FruitDay to tap into JD.com s own logistics and fulfilment network across China to help widen its service in the country. JD.com is commonly thought of as a lesser rival to Alibaba. That s a pretty hard comparison to shake when you consider that Alibaba was responsible for the largest IPO in U.S. history last year   its current market cap exceeds $230 billion   but JD.com is different in key areas. The company, which is listed on the Nasdaq, and has attracted investment from Alibaba s fierce rival Tencent, is building out an Amazon-like delivery model which includes its own warehouses   something that Alibaba does not   as this recent New York Times piece points out. Things start to get even more interesting if you pair JD.com s infrastructure efforts with WeChat, the dominant messaging app in China which is owned by JD.com investor Tencent. JD.com already has a store on WeChat were customers can make purchases without leaving the app, and it could be an interesting medium for fresh fruit and vegetable orders   that s something Line, another chat app, is pioneering in Southeast Asia right now.