HP earnings: quarterly revenue $25.5B, down 7% Y/Y; earnings down too as company prepares for split; shares up 2.3% on asset sales: Hewlett-Packard, the computer and printer giant, reported continued declines in profit and sales on Thursday as it prepared to split into two companies later this year. HP, based in Palo Alto, Calif., said on Thursday that net income in the fiscal second quarter fell 21 percent to $1 billion, or 55 cents a share, from the same quarter a year earlier. Revenue fell 7 percent to $25.5 billion. Sales fell short of Wall Street analysts  revenue expectations of $25.63 billion for the quarter, according to a survey by Thomson Reuters. Excluding some items, the company reported a profit of 87 cents a share, beating analyst estimates on that same basis of 86 cents. The results give investors a progress report on Ms. Whitman s plan to split HP into two companies: One will focus on enterprise-computing technologies like servers, and the other will sell products like personal computers and printers. The separation is set to happen at the end of October. HP said the split remained on track and would initially incur operations costs of $400 million to $450 million. The two independent companies will each be large enough to enter the Fortune 500 and may be better able to react quickly to changing markets than within a large organization. Yet investors question whether the split will slow HP s product creation and sales, as assets and roles are allocated, and whether competitors will exploit customer confusion to seize market share. Since announcing the plan to split, HP has reported declining profit. In March, the company sharply lowered its outlook for annual earnings. In anticipation of the separation, HP is shedding some assets. The company said on Thursday that it sold a 51 percent stake in its Chinese network business to Tsinghua University for about $2.3 billion. The move lets HP continue to sell equipment to businesses in China, which face government restrictions on use of foreign technologies. Shares were up 2.3%.