Spotify Takes on Apple and YouTube: to start offering videos:  Spotify just laid out its plans to be more than a streaming music service, moving to add videos and podcasts in a new service that will now be available in the U.S., U.K., Germany, and Sweden. The changes chart a path that puts Spotify into direct competition with YouTube at a time when Apple is planning to relaunch its own streaming service.  Spotify touted a wide roster of content partners that include Comedy Central, Vice News, NBC, ABC, ESPN, and MTV The focus is on short clips. Digital video is a much bigger business than streaming music. Subscription revenue from audio service will top $5 billion in 2020, according to Generator Research, and by that date 100 million users will be paying for streaming music. This year, however, advertisers are already set to spend $7.8 billion on digital video, according to market research firm EMarketer.  By adding video, Spotify is asking users to interact with its service in a new way: Stare at the app on your phones; don't just press play and stick it back in your pocket. Podcasts are an easier connection. While the podcasting industry can hardly match the financial heft of online video, it is having a bit of a moment. Spotify is launching with a number of high-profile partners in podcasting and radio. Slate, Radiolab, and American Public Media have all signed on. Spotify will also offer some original programming in both video and audio, including radio shows hosted by the rap group Odd Future, a video series showing a new dance move each day, and a podcast about new music. Spotify is taking a cue from Songza, an online radio startup acquired by Google last June, and will offer playlists that correspond to specific moods or activities (such as  chill  or  travel ). The company also announced a new feature that will use the sensors in a user s phone to determine their pace when they re out on a jog and then play music with beats that complement the workout.  The timing of Spotify s announcement isn't an accident. Next month Apple is expected to unveil its own streaming service built on its $3 billion acquisition of Beats. Sure, Spotify faces plenty of competitors already, but it hasn t faced a serious rival since it broke away from the streaming music pack several years ago.  Apple is hardly guaranteed success. It launched a music-based streaming service, Ping, which failed. Then it tried a Pandora competitor, iTunes Radio, which has been underwhelming. Nor is it clear how Apple can fundamentally improve on music subscription services that are a pretty good deal for serious music fans.  Subscription music is a good category. There really isn t a problem here for Apple to fix,  says Andrew Sheehy of Generator.  The only actual advantage that Apple has is the install base and its market power.  