WSJ's Scoop: Google's eCommerce play:  Company will launch buy buttons on its search-results pages in coming weeks.  Google Inc. will launch buy buttons on its search-result pages in coming weeks, a controversial step by the company toward becoming an online marketplace rivaling those run by Amazon.com Inc. and eBay Inc. The search giant will start showing the buttons when people search for products on mobile devices, according to people familiar with the matter.  The buy button will appear only on mobile phones (and currently only to a small percentage of mobile traffic). 1. It s currently available only in the US. 2. Shoppers will input their credit card information with Google once, or can use a variety of digital payment methods (Google hasn t clarified which ones yet). 3. Shoppers will have the option to choose different colors, sizes and shipping options. 4. Shoppers will have their email and address information shared with retailers, if they opt in. (This is important.) 5. The program will continue to be advertising-based, instead of commission-based, which is substantially different from Amazon, eBay, and other marketplaces. So what does this mean for retailers and brands  At ChannelAdvisor, we think this could be big news   one of the biggest disruptions since Google launched Product Listing Ads (PLAs)   and something all retailers and brands need to watch closely. Our experience shows that early adopters of PLAs gained an early and sustainable lead, and we think this change has the potential to further separate the leaders from the laggards. So it makes a ton of sense to us at ChannelAdvisor that Google may be launching its own version of a marketplace by way of a buy button   think of it as a  transactional ad unit.  In fact, given Google s assets   from Android to Google Wallet to PLAs and everything in between   it s actually a bit of a surprise to us that this hasn t happened sooner. Our verdict  This development could be huge for retailers, and those that get on the bus early are likely to widen the competitive gap between themselves and their competitors.