Netflix Shares at All-Time High, Said to be in Talks to Enter China in partnership with Alibaba investee Wasu: Netflix Inc. rose above $600 a share for the first time after it was reported to be in talks with a Chinese media company backed by Jack Ma and other possible partners as it seeks entry into China s $5.9 billion online video market. Netflix has held discussions with companies including Wasu Media Holding Co., according to people with knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be identified because the talks are private. Netflix plans  to be nearly global by the end of 2016,  Anne Marie Squeo, a spokeswoman, said in response to questions about a possible China partnership. Shares of Netflix, based in Los Gatos, California, climbed 4.5 percent to close at $613.25 in New York. A local partnership would be essential given the Chinese government s strict controls over licensing for online content. Netflix wants a partner that has licenses for content on all devices -- including mobile phones, computers and set-top boxes, according to the people. China s State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television has given Internet TV licenses to seven companies, including Wasu. Netflix would need to sort out content censorship regulations with Chinese authorities. Starting this April, new episodes of foreign programs -- including  Mad Men  and  The Simpsons  -- can t be shown until after the shows  seasons have ended, according to a government notice. Episodes need to handed in to censors for approval, and content deemed violent, sexual or offensive to the ruling Communist Party can be cut, according to notices. Wasu, one of the first companies in China to receive an Internet TV license from the government, has been working with Ma s Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. to produce set-top boxes since 2013. Wasu operates cable TV and broadband networks in Hangzhou, where Alibaba is based. Wasu said in April last year it would sell a 20 percent stake to Alibaba Chairman Ma and fellow billionaire Shi Yuzhu.