A Look at the Business Model of Kijiji, a Flop in the US, but which Rules Online Classifieds in Canada: More than 12 million people visit Kijiji s site in Canada every month, three times the amount drawn to Craigslist in the country. The service is used by 42 percent of Canadians, according to comScore, making it one of country s 10 most popular sites. It has also eclipsed other companies  online businesses, including Cox Automotive s once dominant used-car site, AutoTrader. That success is a striking counterexample to the globalization of the web, in which services like Facebook and Google offer a single product worldwide. It also represents one of the few online brands that fizzled in the United States but found success elsewhere, as the social media pioneer Friendster has in the Philippines and Malaysia. Four years earlier, Ms. Bannister joined eBay in California and became director of category development, working to expand the online auction site beyond its original niche of collectible trinkets. When she returned to Canada, as director of product, she was put in charge of the features in the Canadian version of eBay. She soon found that the operation had a significant problem.  EBay Canada was doing a very good job of getting people in Canada to the website, but we were doing a terrible job actually getting them to transact on the website,  said Ms. Bannister, who is now a general partner at Real Ventures, a seed capital investment fund.  We did some things on the website to try to address it, but it didn t really close the gap.  A fundamental problem for eBay in Canada, Mr. Shiau said, is that Canadians generally do not like auction-based pricing. On top of that, Ms. Bannister found that because Canada s vast geography and low population density make shipping costs high and delivery times long, buyers of secondhand goods preferred to make deals in person. To Ms. Bannister, the answer for eBay seemed to be online classified ads. At the head office, however, the idea did not appear to be quite so obvious. At the time, about 10 percent of Canadians used Craigslist, a level many eBay executives thought meant that it was fully entrenched. Nevertheless, they gave Ms. Bannister some classifieds site software being developed for Europe along with a small amount of money to adapt the site and market the result. Listings swiftly grew. Making money, however, was a more gradual process. Among other things, the site did not even introduce banner advertising until it had become fully established. Today, Kijiji has three revenue sources. In addition to banner ads, the site sells more prominent positions within results and more elaborate displays for ads like photo galleries. Also, car dealers and housing rental companies pay subscription fees for their listings. Despite those fees, the autos section is hugely popular, with 4.6 million vehicles listed last year, said Scott Neil, managing director of Kijiji in Canada. This month, Kijiji attracted about 160 car dealers to an annual sales conference in Toronto. And in one measure of Kijiji s success, Postmedia Network, the dominant newspaper publisher in most large Canadian cities, now uses the service to provide the used-car listings on its automotive websites.