Tango, Messaging Startup and Alibaba Investee, Makes Big eCommerce Play with Alibaba's Backing: Chinese ecommerce giant Alibaba has been investing quite literally all over the map. In March of 2014, the company sunk a huge sum   US$215 million   into American messaging app Tango. At the time it seemed a bit odd: why would Alibaba invest so much into an American chat app with no real footprint in China  The picture has become a bit clearer today with the announcement of Tango shops. Tango VP Chi-Chao Chang told Tech in Asia that the goal is to make the in-app shopping experience convenient and social: Tango users will be able to browse and search merchandise. They will be able to share personalized catalogs or collections of merchandise with other Tango users, and securely purchase from millions of products available. To start, Tango shops will feature products from two partners: Wal-Mart and AliExpress. AliExpress, of course, is Alibaba s consumer-facing global ecommerce platform, and Tango users will have access to the entirety of AliExpress s offerings via the in app-search feature. Chang said that Tango will also curate special deals from both providers that will be made available to users on a daily basis. It should come as no surprise that as an investor and now a partner, Alibaba has been heavily involved in the development of Tango s new shops feature. Chang said Alibaba has even given Tango  special access  to products most other companies don t have access to, and I got the impression that without Alibaba, the launch might look quite different.  They have been extremely involved,  Chang said of Alibaba. More here: Tango Offers Shopping on Its Messaging Service: Tango, a peer-to-peer mobile messaging service, planned to announce on Tuesday it would start offering shopping services. Its catalog includes most of what is sold by Walmart and Alibaba, a total of two million products.Tango, which last year received an investment of about $250 million from Alibaba, may be making the strongest move yet. The shopping application involves a button on the screen that opens access to a wide range of products.People can browse the catalog in a number of ways, create personal selections for friends to browse, buy items, or message the details to friends. Payments are handled through credit card information stored in Tango. The company appears more interested in gathering customers, and data on them, rather than profiting directly on commerce. It is taking no commission on the mobile sales.Out of the gate, it is quite a range of goods. In a brief test of the service, from Walmart I found a casket with Yankees logos on the lining, for $2,399. There was also a $4.58 box of honey nut breakfast cereal. Alibaba had women s dresses and antifreeze, among many products (things like guns and alcohol are not available.)Should this method of commerce catch on, it could have profound implications for brands that make their own mobile apps, hoping to attract shoppers.  Would you keep a Levi s app and a Best Buy app, and an app for every merchant, or would you go to one place where it s all there   Mr. Setton said.  I m biased, but I think this interface rules. Maybe, but only over a limited empire. The catalog will initially be available only in the United States. Tango has about 300 million registered users, about one-quarter to one-third of whom are in the United States. It seems to be the first such messaging commerce app for the American audience, though Japan s LINE and WeChat of China offer commerce capabilities.Tango, which started in 2009, has previously offered video calling, games and photo sharing, among other things. Tango s technology enables it to send a lot of data at low cost to the company, offering free services to customers. 