Snap's IPO to Be Haunted by Twitter and GoPro: Snap has gone to great lengths to distance itself from comparisons to Twitter Inc., the last big social media public offering. In its filing for an initial share sale, the maker of the Snapchat mobile app emphasized that it measures itself by daily active users -- a metric that Twitter doesn't disclose. Snap explained that its users tell stories chronologically, unlike the Twitter timeline, which displays most recent posts first. The younger company also said it plans to focus on developed markets, instead of racing to find users all over the world. Snap calls itself a "camera company," rather than focusing on its messaging app or media content. No matter the positioning, Snap's numbers raise the same questions Twitter's did. User growth is slowing and losses are mounting, but revenue gains are a bright spot. That's how Twitter's financial details looked when it filed to go public in 2013, and the investor concern has never subsided, even after a spate of executive departures made way for new management and initiatives to jump-start user growth. Twitter's revenue started to slow when advertisers realized that with stagnant user growth, there wasn't a reason to spend more. Snap is also trying to avoid one of Twitter's IPO mistakes. Twitter compared itself in strategy to social media giant Facebook, but ultimately it paled in contrast to its rapidly growing rival, and has gotten punished by investors since then. Instead, Snap frames itself as a portfolio company, the owner of the Snapchat app, the Spectacles wearable video camera, and many more things to come. At the heart of it all is the idea of the camera -- because ``the camera screen will be the starting point for most products on smartphones.'' The word "camera" is mentioned 79 times in the IPO filing. That approach may bring another uncomfortable parallel. GoPro Inc., which makes small wearable action-video cameras beloved by extreme sports aficionados and outdoor enthusiasts, had its own highly anticipated public offering in 2014. It had a premise similar to Snap: capturing memories in the moment they happen, with the raw perspective of the user. As demand for its devices subsided, GoPro aimed instead to be a media company, seeking to generate more revenue from content that users created and selling advertising. That hasn't worked out as planned. GoPro recently cut 200 jobs and its entire entertainment unit, and its shares now trade for less than half their IPO price. Other makers of wearable devices, including Fitbit, Jawbone and Pebble, haven't fared much better.