Verizon Bets on Video Ads in $4 Billion Deal for AOL: The nation s biggest wireless operator sees its digital future in a company that still offers dial-up Internet service. However backward that may seem, Verizon Communications  $4.4 billion all-cash deal for AOL, announced on Tuesday, illustrates how the communications industry has changed   even if the underlying rationale has not   from the days when the Internet pioneer told users  You ve got mail.  AOL may be known for its dot-com rise and fall and for current web content like The Huffington Post , but Verizon is looking to gain the company s powerful but little-known mobile video and advertising technology. That could make Verizon s own phone and Internet offerings more appealing to consumers, and to advertisers. The motive is clear. Consumers are increasingly watching videos   from YouTube to HBO   on mobile phones, tablets and laptops. And big media companies and advertisers are only beginning to grapple with this rapidly evolving market. By layering AOL s technology atop its 109 million wireless connections and growing cable television business, Verizon is betting that it can make billions of dollars by selling ads against streaming video. Comcast, the biggest cable operator, acquired NBCUniversal, the big television and movie studio company. AT&T, Verizon s nearest rival, is acquiring DirecTV, the satellite television business. And Sprint, another wireless operator, is making its own forays into content.  The telecoms are clearly saying,  We re not going to be dumb pipes,    said Jonathan Miller, the chief executive of AOL from 2002 to 2006, who is now a venture capitalist. Yet in acquiring AOL, Verizon gets more than just new advertising technology. It also takes ownership of a company with a troubled legacy and a muddled present. AOL operates the dwindling but still profitable dial-up Internet business, runs a collection of news websites and employs big personalities including Arianna Huffington and its chief executive, Tim Armstrong. Verizon covets two main pieces of AOL s mobile and video technology offerings. One is its big network of original video content, which is home to lucrative online video advertising. The other is its so-called programmatic advertising business, a system that matches online advertisers with consumers across different platforms, and collects valuable data along the way.