Chinese Smartphone Makers Try to Make Inroads in India: The era of fast growth is coming to an end in China, where the research group IDC said on Monday that phone sales fell 4 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, the first contraction in six years. IDC expects no growth in China s smartphone market in 2015. India s smartphone sales are just a fraction of China s. But as one of the fastest-growing smartphone markets in the world, with hundreds of millions of potential new customers, India may indicate whether a new generation of Chinese hardware companies can grow beyond their country s borders. It is intensely competitive, with more than 150 brands. Among the best-selling brands are several indigenous companies with an inside track on local phone habits. Another top seller is a multinational, Samsung, which has deep experience selling across different cultures. Xiaomi, the most successful Chinese company in India, owned only 4 percent of the market in the fourth quarter. But India is also the only place that has a scale like China s. Indians are expected to buy 111 million smartphones this year, and 149 million in 2016. And China s smartphone makers say Chinese and Indian customers have a lot in common: Both tend to obsess over arcane features and specs, and both are highly sensitive to cost. Many Chinese companies are trying to make their case directly to potential Indian buyers online. It is a technique pioneered by Xiaomi, which used e-commerce to overcome difficult-to-manage and expensive storefronts and distribution deals in China and now India. So-called flash sales, which offer limited batches of phones to drive up demand and build brand cachet, have rattled the current top sellers in India, the local company Micromax and the South Korean giant Samsung, according to analysts. The tactic is cheap and effective, said Mr. Sharma of Coolpad:  We don t need to spend tens of millions of dollars on marketing or building distribution networks.  One of the most successful Chinese brands in India so far, Xiaomi has gone to great lengths to create products catering to customers there. Its new Mi 4i phone costs more than many rivals at about $200, but supports six Indian languages, with local engineers working to increase that number. The company has also built an online store that focuses on India s passions of cricket and Bollywood, and has plans to open 100 stores around the country before the end of the year.  We want to become an Indian company,  Xiaomi s chief executive, Lei Jun, told a local newspaper after the introduction of the Mi 4i.