Leadership Change at Alibaba: In the surprise leadership change, Mr. Ma picked Daniel Zhang, who has been at Alibaba for eight years, to lead one of the world s largest Internet companies. Mr. Ma, in a letter to employees, portrayed the replacement of the chief executive, Jonathan Lu, as a sort of changing of the guard.  Alibaba Group is ready to completely hand over management leadership to those of you who were born in the  70s,  Mr. Ma wrote, adding that several other experienced Alibaba leaders would give up some day-to-day control to allow younger executives to rise. Mr. Zhang, who was born in 1972, has become well known among employees at Alibaba for his public speaking and charisma. Leading Alibaba s investment call on Thursday, Mr. Zhang s polished English underlined the divide between himself and Mr. Ma, who, though once an English teacher, speaks a more unorthodox, self-taught brand of the language. Within Alibaba, there is admiration for Mr. Zhang s cosmopolitan management style, in part honed during stints early in his career at Arthur Andersen and PricewaterhouseCoopers. Mr. Lu, who is only a few years older than his replacement, is scheduled to step down as chief executive on Sunday, exactly two years after he took over from Mr. Ma. At the time of his ascent, he was portrayed as a utility player who would help the ballooning start-up manage its rapid growth. Mr. Lu will remain on the board. To many Alibaba employees, Mr. Zhang, who led the rise of the company s Tmall shopping site, is known as one of the most capable of the new generation of leaders. Mr. Zhang will need all the youthful energy he can manage to steer an e-commerce goliath that employs more than 30,000 people across the globe. He will very likely move quickly to address company inefficiencies that Mr. Ma identified last week in a speech to employees in Beijing. During the speech, Mr. Ma said the company would strive not to have a net growth in employees over the coming year. Instead, he said, Alibaba will work to transfer employees between departments and use technology to smooth operations.