Google, Dominant in Search, Tries Disruptor Role in Wireless and Broadband: In the stodgy wireless service industry, long dominated by AT&T and Verizon, with struggling Sprint and feisty T-Mobile a distant third and fourth, the possibility that a new competitor might upend this cozy oligopoly has long been considered a pipe dream. When the Justice Department sued to block the proposed merger of AT&T and T-Mobile in 2011, it concluded it was highly unlikely that other competitors would enter the market. Last year, Sprint abandoned its bid for T-Mobile after the Justice Department suggested that deal, too, would be anticompetitive. But now Google s entry into wireless   named Project Fi   has changed the conversation about competition in that market, even though Google said the move was still an experiment.  I m delighted that Google is doing this,  said Scott Hemphill, visiting professor of antitrust and intellectual property at New York University School of Law.  This is an industry that s ripe for disruption.  Google s wireless business certainly seems disruptive. It takes direct aim at the fat profit margins and high prices of the dominant firms. Google is charging $20 a month for basic voice and text service, and $10 for a gigabyte of cellular data, according to a blog post on the company s website. And in a move unheard-of among traditional wireless providers, Google will rebate payments to customers for any unused data. Google s service also uses a combination of innovative technology and partnerships with existing cellular providers to overcome its lack of wireless spectrum. Project Fi uses Wi-Fi networks whenever possible (hence its name) and, when Wi-Fi isn t available, moves seamlessly to cellular networks. The cellular networks are provided by Sprint and T-Mobile, the current cell service underdogs. In the high-speed broadband market, even the prospect of Google s coming to town has caused entrenched providers to improve their service in anticipation of a new competitive threat. After Google said it would bring its fiber service to the Charlotte, N.C., market, Time Warner Cable announced it was offering a free higher-speed upgrade to its customers there.