Affirm, consumer lending start-up raises $275M to lend to young borrowers using data science: Affirm is adding $275 million in debt and equity to accelerate its growth plans. The big Series B funding round is a vote of confidence by investors in one of the more ambitious entrants into the emerging field of financial technology. The firm is at the forefront of start-ups trying to use the new math of data science to more accurately assess credit risk than traditional scoring, which relies heavily on a person s credit history. Conventional techniques, the new lenders say, do not do a good job of predicting the default risk on people with limited credit histories, like young people and recent immigrants. Traditional credit analysis tools, they add, tend to overly punish borrowers for single missteps such as a missed student loan payment or falling behind on medical debt. Affirm is building its business by focusing on lending to the millennial market, those under 35 years of age. They tend to have thin credit histories, and surveys show they generally have a lowly opinion of banks.  We re building a financial technology company for the next generation,  said Max Levchin, the chief executive of Affirm, who was a co-founder of PayPal. To date, Affirm s main product is a credit-card alternative for online merchants   installment loans from three months to a year. To seek a loan, an applicant provides a few items of personal information   name, cellphone number, birth date and the last four digits of the person s Social Security number. Then, Affirm s algorithms pore through all kinds of data from credit bureau reports to social networks. Affirm s technology makes the underwriting decision almost immediately. More than 100 online merchants have signed up with Affirm, which has made more than $100 million in loans. Merchants using Affirm, the company says, report 20 percent higher sales, reflecting the appeal of Affirm s alternative to credit cards. The tryout phase for the two-year-old company s technology, Mr. Levchin said, is over.  We ve come of age, so we want to have the resources to expand,  he said. New products, Mr. Levchin said, are part of the plan, including a credit-card offering.