IBM and Facebook in Marketing Partnership: Personalized marketing   the product pitch or message that really hits its target, the right person at the right time   is the much-discussed ideal in advertising and sales. The truth is that personalized marketing is, well, mostly marketing today. With modern tools of data analysis, it is becoming increasingly possible to identify customer groups in smaller segments than the big demographic buckets of the past, which filtered by age, gender, income and place of residence. But smaller audiences are still a long way from personalized marketing. On Wednesday, IBM and Facebook are announcing a partnership to take a step closer to the ideal. The partnership stems from how the companies bring complementary strengths to the lucrative business of data-fueled marketing. IBM s data analytics business caters to major retailers and big consumer product brands. And Facebook, the social networking giant, does too. IBM s data scientists do a lot of social media and sentiment analysis, but not with the vast laboratory of human behavior and preferences that Facebook has. The partnership is intended to combine data that marketers have on customers   like purchase behavior, responses to a marketer s email campaigns and call center inquiries   with Facebook data including likes, comments and complaints. IBM s data analytics will then be used to help big brands find and communicate with more finely targeted audiences on Facebook. Mr. Chandlee called this  personalization at scale.  And the insights gleaned from analyzing Facebook and other data should also help companies better target consumers in other marketing channels, such as ads on the web and email programs. Facebook will also be the first company to join IBM s new Commerce ThinkLab. The new lab is a collaborative setting for applied research involving teams from major consumer brands and retailers, IBM industry experts and data scientists, and teams from Facebook as well. For IBM, the Facebook partnership is the most recent alliance the enterprise technology company has forged with consumer-focused technology companies, notably Apple and Twitter .