Two Retail Veterans Take Aim at Amazon s E-Commerce Reign: In the last few months, two retail veterans have been working on companies that explore these different avenues of breaking into online commerce. Ron Johnson, who, with Steve Jobs, created Apple s lucrative physical stores, has been working on something out of left field   a selective online store called Enjoy, which, for no additional cost, will send an expert to hand-deliver tech products and spend an hour helping people set up and learn to use their new things. The service, Mr. Johnson said, is a smartphone-era take on his past at Apple   an effort to create the friendliness of an Apple Store in people s homes and offices. Then there s Marc Lore, an e-commerce veteran who in 2010 sold his company, Quidsi, to Amazon for about $550 million. Mr. Lore s new service, Jet.com, represents a frontal assault on Amazon. Mr. Lore has raised more than $200 million   a staggering sum before even opening up shop   to create a nationwide e-commerce giant to compete with Amazon on selection, service and, especially, price. Jet s promise is simple and, if the company can keep it, potentially momentous: to offer the absolute lowest price on just about everything, from paper towels to oatmeal to tennis rackets, guaranteed. Enjoy is starting small. The company, which has raised around $30 million from investors, is starting out in just the San Francisco Bay Area this week and in New York City next Wednesday. Enjoy does not compete with Amazon on selection; it offers only about a dozen or so high-margin tech products for sale, among them laptops, GoPros, drones and, in an exclusive deal, smartphones and tablets purchased from AT&T. Mr. Johnson believes that by limiting selection, Enjoy can offer free delivery and setup. Because it only needs to stock high-end products, the company hopes to squeeze enough out of each purchase to cover delivery and personal consultation. Enjoy is in stark contrast with Jet, which, when it opens to the public in early July, does not aim to start small. Right out of the gate, it makes a huge promise:  You should never find an item that s more expensive on Jet than anywhere else,  Mr. Lore told me this week. Mr. Lore says he believes he can keep that promise thanks to an unusual business model. Like Costco, Jet will charge an annual membership fee, in this case $49.99. That fee is intended to free Mr. Lore from making any profit on each item   and thus pass all potential savings to customers. Right now, Jet is working well enough to bolster Mr. Lore s basic claim   on dozens of items I searched for, Jet was cheaper, sometimes unbelievably so, than Amazon, Walmart or anywhere else online. For instance, a 40-pack of Duracell AA batteries on Amazon sells for $16.99. On Jet, the same pack is $13.70. If you add more items to your cart, Jet reduces the cost further. So, by ordering the batteries as part of a larger cart, I cut the price down to just under $11, about a third less than Amazon s price. I noticed this effect on multiple orders across a wide range of household staples I usually order, from cooking oil to aluminum foil to shampoo to baby diapers. Jet s sticker prices are low, but when I created large carts, the prices shrank even more. My child s diapers, ordered in bulk, cost me 21 cents each, compared with 29 cents at Amazon. Still, there are some disadvantages: Jet s fastest items ship in two days, slower than Amazon s next- or same-day shipping, and a huge number of its goods ship in three to five days. It also does not offer an Amazon Prime-like free shipping service; you pay $5.99 for all orders under $35, after which your order ships free. These limitations suggest that Jet is going after an audience that s different from Amazon s   one that is less affluent, less hooked on impulse buying and more interested in discounts.  For most households, the proposition of paying $50 to Jet and saving $200 for the year, that s a no-brainer thing,  Mr. Lore said. Over the holidays, Amazon sold a record $29.3 billion in merchandise, more than many large e-commerce companies combined. But Americans spent around $1.2 trillion in the same period, meaning that Amazon accounted for just 2 percent of our purchases. In other words, there s lots of room for new ways to get Americans shopping online.