3-D Printing Is Saving the Italian Artisan: Italy s craftsmen turn to a new tool in their competition with cheap products from China. Northeast Italy s industrial heartland stretches roughly from Milan to Venice, along the floodplains of the Po River all the way to the Adriatic.  Like much of the rest of the country, however, the region has fallen on hard times. Italy s craftsmen have been undermined by competition from China and other parts of Asia. Since the beginning of the global economic crisis, the northeast s industrial sector has shed about 135,000 jobs some 17 percent of its total workforce. Techniques such as the 3D printing used by Pomini and Armani have helped turn northeastern Italy into an unlikely hothouse of innovation. Last year growth in the region was positive for the first time since 2007, at 0.5 percent. Exports rose by 3.5 percent in 2014 and are expected to keep climbing. In the province of Trento, for instance, the public and private sectors together invest some 2 percent of gross domestic product in research and development. At the Centro Moda Canossa a trade school in Trento for children age 14 to 18 specializing in fashion design and tailoring the faculty recently added a class in which students incorporate 3D printing, laser cutting, and microcontroller chips into their designs.  You can t offer a job from the past. Nobody will come,  says Michele Bommassar, 36, the school s vice director.  You have to offer the jobs of the future.  He points to a student project, a purse with a laser-cut pattern on its flap and an interior that lights up when it s opened:  It s beautiful, but we believe it is also necessary. The alternative is to be eaten by others.  At their best, these technologies inject elements of the digital economy into the physical world, allowing a galaxy of small companies to compete with multinationals, in much the same way homemade YouTube videos hold their own against traditional video production. The advent of rapid prototyping and other innovations means  you can compensate for your disadvantages with variety, customization, and a rapid response to what the market is demanding,  says Paolo Collini, a business professor and the dean of the University of Trento. Or, as Armani puts it:  If something doesn t work, you simply stop producing. You haven t filled a warehouse. For a designer, it s a dream. You can take more risks. 