Generational Shift at Cisco as longtime CEO John Chambers Steps Down: On Monday, perhaps the last veteran leader of the old guard signaled it was time to leave the corner office   if only for a move down the hall. John T. Chambers, chief executive of Cisco Systems since 1995, said he was stepping down effective July 26, to be succeeded by a longtime Cisco sales executive.  He is the last of the lions, presiding over years of incredible growth,  said George Colony, chief executive of Forrester Research, a market research firm. Cisco makes much of the gear that runs the Internet, notably digital information switches. It also supplies equipment for the world s telecommunications infrastructure, and for teleconferencing, video and Wi-Fi networks. It had sales of $47.1 billion in the 2014 fiscal year, compared with $1.2 billion in 1994, just before Mr. Chambers took over. Mr. Chambers s successor, Charles H. Robbins, is 49, and joined Cisco, the networking equipment maker, in 1997, just two years after Mr. Chambers became C.E.O. Mr. Chambers, 65, will remain as executive chairman. The company said that Mr. Chambers would spend time supporting the company s new chief and  engaging closely with customers and governments around the world.  The transition is another sign of a generational shift in Silicon Valley. In September, Lawrence J. Ellison announced he would leave the C.E.O. position at Oracle, the world s largest maker of database software. Like Mr. Chambers, Mr. Ellison became the company s executive chairman and remains active. In August 2013, Steven A. Ballmer said he would step down as head of Microsoft, and he was succeeded in February 2014 by Satya Nadella. Unlike Mr. Ellison or Mr. Chambers, Mr. Ballmer cut his ties with Microsoft and left the board in August. He now gives commands from the courtside of the Los Angeles Clippers basketball team, which he purchased for $2 billion in May 2014. In addition, just months before Mr. Ballmer announced his decision to step down as Microsoft chief, there was a passing of the guard at the chip maker Intel, with Brian M. Krzanich becoming chief executive to succeed Paul S. Otellini. The year before, in 2012, Virginia M. Rometty took the place vacated by Samuel J. Palmisano as head of IBM. Even as the executive suites at these large companies have turned over, a web-focused and mobile-proficient group of companies now dominate the technology scene, including Facebook and Google. Many of these are run by much younger leaders than Mr. Chambers, especially Google s Larry Page, 42, and Facebook s Mark Zuckerberg, 30. Their companies have powerful networks but are primarily devoted to software, and an ethos that information should be ubiquitous and shared.  Now it s a young man s game,  Mr. Colony said.