Jet.com First Look: Prices Are Fantastic but Amazon Prime Shoppers Won t Switch Over: Over the past year, yet-to-launch shopping site Jet.com has garnered a lot of attention for the gobs of investment dollars it has procured and the radically unique discounting model it s building. Jet sells a $50 annual membership, a la Costco, which it says gives its members access to the best prices anywhere on the Web. CEO Marc Lore, who had started Diapers.com and eventually sold it to Amazon, has told Re/code that the company will make its profit from membership fees. That will free the company up to offer the lowest prices online by discounting its products with the commission fees it gets from the partnering retailers that sell stuff through Jet s marketplace. But up until this week, there was no way for most people to know whether the site worked as promised. Two days ago, Jet.com gave me access ahead of yesterday s private launch to 10,000 people who had signed up early. I played around with the site for a few hours, which was enough time to get a feel for how it worked and to do some price comparisons. It s important to note that this is a first look, and that Re/code s stellar reviews team will likely do a thorough review in the coming months. That said, here are a few thoughts. I compared prices between Jet and Amazon, and Jet won. But let s get this out of the way at the start: It s going to be very hard for Jet to convert Amazon Prime members to Jet membership. There are several reasons why I think Prime members, who pay $99 a year for membership, will stay put. First, Amazon sells hundreds of millions of products in the U.S. Jet sells five million products today and will offer 10 million by the time it launches publicly later this spring, according to Lore. Secondly, one of the beauties of Prime is there s no delivery minimum, so if you only need one $20 product, you don t have to worry about adding more products to your shopping cart to reach the free-shipping threshold. Jet s free-shipping minimum is $35 and it charges $5.99 for orders under that threshold. Also, many Prime members don t do much price comparing because they trust they re getting a fair deal. They also value the two-day guaranteed delivery time that comes with Prime. Some Jet.com products   like diapers, toilet paper and cereal   will be delivered in one to two days. Other stuff, like clothes and electronics, will take two to five days to arrive. There are also additional Prime perks that Jet isn t matching: Free same-day delivery in a growing number of cities; a large selection of free movies and TV shows to stream; and free photo storage, among other things. Lore says all of this is fine with him because there s still more than $200 billion of online shopping sales at stake in the U.S., even when you exclude sales made on Amazon. Additionally, Jet offers savings of anywhere from eight cents more on the soap to $19.98 on the TV if I waived my right to return the item. This is a feature I haven t seen on any other major shopping site. What s more, Jet will deduct another quarter of a percent for paying with a Visa or MasterCard credit card or 1.5 percent if you pay with a Visa or MasterCard debit card. There s no discount if you pay with American Express. Again, this is a unique discounting structure I haven t seen elsewhere on large shopping sites. My experience above shows that Jet, at least now, is living up to its pricing hype. But a lot will depend on whether this discounting strategy is really sustainable and how aggressively other retailers try to match it. It s also too early to tell whether Jet will honor its delivery times and how good its customer service will be, too.