Snap shoots for the sky, promises little in $3 billion IPO pitch: Snapchat owner Snap Inc shot the opening salvo in its $3 billion initial public offering on Thursday, outlining aggressive expansion plans but offering new investors no say on how the company is run and no promise of profits. Snap's publication on Thursday of its IPO registration document sets the stage for its upcoming marketing campaign to convince investors to look past its widening losses and the firm grip of its founders, and focus on its rapid growth of active users. The number of Snap's daily active users grew to an average of 158 million at the end of December, up 48 percent year-on-year, Snap revealed. However, its net loss widened to $514.6 million in 2016 from $372.9 million the year before. While Snap will have time to polish its marketing pitch in the run-up to the IPO planned for March, some analysts were taken aback that the company was just beginning to reap cash from its product. "What surprises me the most is that it is still very early days when it comes to Snap making money," said Rohit Kulkarni, managing director at private securities investment firm SharesPost.Snap had $404.5 million in sales in 2016, up from $58.7 million in 2015. However, it had adjusted losses before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization last year of $459 million, compared with $292.9 million in 2015. Snap's biggest losses stem from "hosting fees" which it pays to cloud computing companies such as Google to use their infrastructure for its data. It will pay Google $2 billion over the next five years to use its cloud computing services. Because Snapchat users rely heavily on data-heavy pictures and video, the cost of these service is high. Still, the proportion of the company's costs to its revenue has been declining. Its strategy has been to bargain for better hosting rates as its growing number of users buoys its negotiating leverage. "They are adding infrastructure ahead of growth, and that is why you have some front-loading of losses," said SharesPost's Kulkarni.