Tesla s Home Battery Announcement is a big deal: The coming revolution in energy storage: Late Thursday, the glitzy electric car company Tesla Motors, run by billionaire Elon Musk, ceased to be just a car company. As was widely expected, Tesla announced that it is offering a home battery product, which people can use to store energy from their solar panels or to backstop their homes against blackouts, and also larger scale versions that could perform similar roles for companies or even parts of the grid. Late Thursday, Tesla unveiled a suite of new battery products for homes, business, and even utility scale applications. The home product, dubbed the Tesla Powerwall, will store either 10 kilowatt-hours worth of energy (for $ 3,500) or 7 kilowatt-hours (for $3,000). Importantly, though, these costs do not include the cost of installing the battery or the cost of a power inverter, meaning that what a customer actually pays could be substantially more. The company says it will start to deliver the batteries in  late summer.  For those closely following developments in the energy storage space, there are two key details here that are worth considering   the cost of the battery itself, and what it would actually mean to have 10 kilowatt-hours of backup energy or energy storage in your home.When it comes to price, these numbers are hardly cheap, but they re also lower than some analysts were suggesting   figures like $13,000 were common in press coverage prior to Tesla s announcement.  The price points of the two Powerwall options for residential and small commercial segments will surely give minor jolts to the industry,  Ravi Manghani, an analyst with GTM Research, said in a statement. The prices are  slightly lower than what the world has come to expect of an expensive electric vehicle manufacturer. This announcement is expected to result in similarly aggressive price offers by other storage technology and system vendors.  So there are a lot of details about the energy storage future that need to be worked out, especially as the market continues to grow. But for today, Tesla definitely seems to have gotten people pretty excited.