After a Decade of Running Shy, Start-Ups Try to Challenge Google, at Least on Mobile Search: After a decade in which entrepreneurs and investors steered clear of Google s home turf, venture capitalists have plowed hundreds of millions of dollars into dozens of search start-ups because they say they believe the Internet giant cannot dominate search on mobile devices the way it has on personal computers.  There has been no great solution for mobile search,  Mr. Lo said. Venture capitalists financed 27 search companies in 2014 and 33 the year before   the two most active years on record, according to CB Insights, whose data on the venture capital industry goes back to 1999. The biggest jump has been in mobile search companies, according to a report CB Insights released in March, particularly companies that use  deep links  to connect mobile applications the way websites are linked on the web. Search is still a tiny start-up category, especially compared with red-hot services like ride-hailing or grocery delivery.  But as the spate of early-stage investments in mobile search matures, the area could see funding totals increase as well as the entrance of more start-ups,  CB Insights said in its report. Mobile also has several special challenges for an entrenched player like Google. With its constellation of apps and competing operating systems, mobile is a highly fragmented universe, making it harder for one company to index all of the most relevant information the way Google has indexed the web. Also, the answer to many of the most common   and lucrative   queries is neatly structured inside popular applications like Yelp, the local directory service, making it easier to create focused search products that are unlikely to sink Google but could give it  a thousand tiny leaks,  said Jeremy Kressmann, an analyst at eMarketer who covers the search business. Behind the new companies is a conviction that people use mobile phones so differently than they do desktop and laptop computers that the search business is ripe for an overhaul.  Anytime there is a platform change, everything is up for grabs,  said Keith Rabois, a partner at Khosla Ventures, which has backed a mobile search company called Relcy.  No entrepreneur would start, and nobody would fund, a new search product for the web.  The most obvious difference with mobile is that people have their phones with them all the time, giving search companies lots of contextual clues   like location   for what they might want.