LinkedIn, Twitter, Yelp - recent Internet darlings - each slumped by more than 20% this week on weak earnings: A trio of social media stocks is getting pummeled this week, a sign that Wall Street may be unwilling to overlook missteps at some of its Internet darlings. LinkedIn on Thursday plunged as much as 25 percent in after-hours trading after the professional social networking company forecast second-quarter sales that were weaker than Wall Street estimates. The drop followed the declines of two other social networking companies. Twitter shares are down around 25 percent this week after the company reported quarterly sales that fell short of expectations, while local reviews site Yelp plummeted 23 percent on Thursday, a day after it too posted sales that disappointed Wall Street. The performances illustrate the way investors are questioning whether social media companies can keep their growth rates vigorous enough to justify their valuations. The stocks of all three companies had traded at relatively high levels, reflecting Wall Street s giddy projections. Yet all three shattered that perception in their own way. And while many of these stocks are often volatile, with investors on edge about the weak economy, interest rates and other issues, shareholders increasingly have little tolerance for the slightest misstep.  Based on where some of these stocks were trading, expectations were already very high and were priced for relative perfection,  said Colin Sebastian, a senior analyst for Robert W. Baird & Company.  The reaction when companies don t achieve great results can be fairly severe.  Any continued rockiness in the stocks could cause repercussions. Last year, several technology companies   including the online storage firm Box   delayed their initial public offerings because of turbulence in tech stocks. A protracted swoon in public tech companies could also trickle into their privately held counterparts. These companies have been frothy lately, with start-ups daily hitting $1 billion-plus valuations and renewing talk of a bubble in Silicon Valley.