Twitter Troubles Lie in Marketers  Reluctance to Buy New Kind of Ad: As a company, Twitter is an adolescent   gangly, starry-eyed, growing like a weed and unpredictable. No wonder advertisers and investors are having trouble figuring it out. The social networking company shocked Wall Street on Tuesday by reporting slower-than-expected growth in advertising sales, which account for nearly all of its revenue. Shares of Twitter, which fell 18 percent on Tuesday after the first-quarter results were disclosed, dropped an additional 9 percent on Wednesday. Although revenue rose a brisk 74 percent in the quarter compared with the same quarter a year ago, it was less growth than in Twitter s five previous quarters and well below the high bar that the company had set. Twitter attributed the disappointment to advertisers  reluctance to spend heavily on ads that prompt the viewer to take an action, like download a smartphone app or apply for a credit card. This type of ad, known as direct response, is a newer area for Twitter, which originally focused on general brand image ads. Marketers say they are indeed more cautious about Twitter s direct-response ads because the microblogging service has not yet shown that it can target or track those ads with the level of precision that advertisers want. Compared with mature rivals like Google and Facebook, Twitter doesn t know as much about its users, and it is more difficult to measure results. Facebook has so much data on its users,  you could actually target a premium credit card to a businessman you know is traveling all the time,  said Bryan Wiener, chairman of 360i, a digital marketing agency that works with brands like Capital One, NBCUniversal, Spotify, Oreo and Oscar Mayer.  That s the kind of information that s missing from Twitter,  he said.  There s not this rich history of your holistic life.  As a result, he said, many brands are unwilling to commit big money to Twitter ad campaigns. Mr. Freeman said that, in general, Twitter is best for building brand awareness and recall. Its weakness is the ability to measure direct-response effectiveness.  A lot of times, brands don t really know what to do with it,  he said.  And that was Twitter s fault because I don t think they had a very clear direction. 