Twitter Q1 earnings: $436M, +74% Y/Y, net loss $162M; shares crash 18% on weakness in both engagement and monetization: Twitter posted weaker-than-expected financial results for the first quarter on Tuesday and told investors to reduce their expectations for the rest of the year. The quarterly report, which was supposed to be published after the stock market closed, was obtained early and posted on Twitter by the financial analytics firm Selerity. The release sent Twitter shares plunging. Trading was briefly halted so the company could disseminate its results. That steepened the drop, and the stock ended the day down about 18 percent. Twitter s revenue grew 74 percent in the quarter, but that was less than the 97 percent growth seen in the fourth quarter and below the company s own forecasts. Executives attributed the slowdown to a transition to a new advertising model that priced certain ads based on the result, such as whether the viewer downloaded an app, instead of whether the person simply clicked on it. Analysts said, however, that the shortfall suggested that the real-time network might be less useful than competitors for what are called direct-response ads.  Do people want to leave what they are doing on Twitter and do something else like buy something   said Debra Aho Williamson, an analyst at the research firm eMarketer.  Direct-response advertisers haven t figured out the best way to use Twitter, and Twitter hasn t figured out the best way to market to them.  The quarterly results may renew calls for the resignation of Twitter s chief executive, Dick Costolo, who has been under fire from some investors ever since the company s initial public offering in the fall of 2013.  User growth doesn t appear to be notably improving, and now monetization is failing to live up to expectations,  said Richard Greenfield, an analyst with BTIG Research.  That s why the stock is selling off so hard. The question is, How much of this is Twitter s own missteps versus how much of this is peers such as Facebook, Instagram and Snapchat eating into their advertising   Twitter said that 302 million people used its service at least once a month during the first quarter. That is up from 288 million in December and in line with recent trends. But the figure failed to impress investors, who have been eager to see results from recent changes Twitter has made to help newcomers better understand how to use its service. Twitter s revenue, most of which derives from advertising, came in at $436 million in the first quarter, up from $250 million in the same quarter a year ago. That was well below the $457 million that Wall Street analysts had expected, according to estimates collected by S&P Capital IQ. The company also continued to lose money in the first quarter: $162 million, or 25 cents a share. Excluding stock-based compensation and certain other expenses, however, the company reported a profit of $46.5 million, or 7 cents a share. On that basis, Wall Street had expected Twitter to earn 4 cents a share.