Twitter CEO faces a crisis of confidence: Twitter Inc. s chief executive officer failed to foresee a slowdown that forced the social-media company to miss analysts  first-quarter revenue estimates and cut its 2015 sales forecast, and the stock slumped 18 percent. While this isn t the first time Twitter has fallen short on promised results, investors had been told that new features and services, as well as a management overhaul, were starting to pay off. Now, with results missing projections and executives warning of a  slow start  to April user additions, analysts are asking whether Twitter s potential market is limited and about management s ability to lure more users and advertisers Management will again have to address credibility concerns,  Mark Mahaney, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets, wrote in a note to investors. The quarter s performance  raises the question of how much visibility into advertiser and consumer demand for its offerings Twitter really has,  he said. As Twitter has evolved, Costolo has also sought to explain changes in how the company s performance should be measured. He usually has a positive business reason for why a number went down. For example, after a slump in timeline views, a metric that Twitter touted as a key figure before its November 2013 initial public offering, Costolo said product improvements had made clicks less necessary, deflating the importance of a number that was supposed to measure user interest. That figure no longer appears on earnings releases, and Twitter hasn t replaced it with a new metric to track engagement. As Twitter s monthly active user growth slowed, Costolo responded by saying that it didn t show the whole picture because 500 million people also visit Twitter s website each month without logging in. Now, Twitter has decided to tweak the metric, it said on the conference call, making historical comparisons more difficult. The company is adding to the total user count people who access Twitter and send tweets via SMS, or text messaging, in emerging markets, reasoning that they will one day become regular users when upgrading their phones. The change, which will start this quarter, would have added 6 million more people to the prior period s total count.