Oracle raises $10B in debt as tech majors borrow to sweeten equity with dividends, buybacks: Oracle sold $10 billion of notes on Tuesday, including the software maker s first bond that will mature in 40 years, at yields that were lower than originally offered, according to a person with knowledge of the deal. Amgen, the world s second-biggest biotech company, issued $1.25 billion in 30-year securities at its lowest coupon for that maturity as a part of a $3.5 billion debt sale, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Both borrowers raised debt to return capital to their equity investors. The highest-rated companies that have been building up their balance sheets after the financial crisis are showing willingness to borrow to satisfy stock investors pushing them to lift share prices. And even as the Federal Reserve moves closer to raising interest rates, forecasts that the U.S. central bank will wait until September, is encouraging borrowers to embrace yields on corporate bonds that are hovering near record lows. Apple Inc. said Monday it may tap debt markets to fund share buybacks. Investors are rewarding companies that have hoarded cash and tightened spending. The ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for companies in the Standard & Poor s 500 index is near the lowest levels on record. Oracle last month boosted its dividend for the first time since 2013 by 25 percent to 15 cents a share, up from the prior payout of 12 cents. Oracle, based in Redwood City, California, last sold bonds in June, when it issued $10 billion. The company sold the new debt in six parts, with the $1.25 billion 40-year portion yielding 170 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, 10 basis points less than where the deal was initially marketed. Apple unveiled a plan Monday to boost its share-buyback authorization by $50 billion to $140 billion, and increasing the company s dividend by 11 percent. Cupertino, California-based Apple has issued the equivalent of $40.35 billion of bonds since April 2013, when it sold $17 billion in what at the time was the biggest corporate-bond offering ever.