Microsoft might be approaching a substantial goodwill impairment from the Nokia purchase: Microsoft made waves recently by disclosing in its quarterly 10-Q document that its Phone business, which generates billions in yearly revenue, isn t performing as well as it expected. As Microsoft is carrying billions of dollars of goodwill related to the Nokia purchase on its books, the warning landed like a brick in a puddle of lukewarm slop. History as prelude in this case is the aQuantive boondoggle, during which Microsoft wrote of billions of dollars of value relating to that purchase. As Business Insider s Matt Weinberger recently wrote:  [T]he last time Microsoft used language like this in an earnings report was back in 2012, three months before it took a $6.2 billion charge to its bottom line for its aQuantive acquisition.  Microsoft currently counts quite a lot of goodwill as an intangible asset on its books. In its most recent quarters, the dollar amount of goodwill sourced from the Nokia deal, in which Microsoft bought the majority of the Finnish company s hardware assets, sat around the $5.4 billion mark. That s about a quarter of the company s total goodwill, which it reports as just over $21.7 billion. Microsoft may not be forced to write down any goodwill relating to the Nokia deal. Or it may have to write down quite a lot. In terms of scale, how bad could the damage be  A massive write down could tank a quarter of the company s profit, using normal accounting methods (GAAP). Using adjusted metrics, Microsoft could take the non-cash charge in stride, more shamefaced than materially castigated. On a GAAP basis, things get more interesting. The $5.4 billion in goodwill that the company currently counts as an asset is more than the company s last-quarter GAAP profit. So, in theory, a massive write down could erase a full quarter s profits both per-share and in aggregate. We can look back to the aQuantive write down to see the potential impact. Here s Microsoft, from the fourth quarter of its fiscal 2012. In short, the write down essentially erased the company s profit for the quarter.