Indonesian startup Cubeacon aims to be pioneer in iBeacon technology: Cubeacon wants to be Indonesia s pioneer in iBeacon technology: It s a rare thing to hear about software-as-a-service (SaaS) ventures from Indonesia, and even more rare to hear about hardware innovation. But Cubeacon combines both. It focuses on customer loyalty management with a hardware component based on Apple s iBeacon technology. The startup may be so far ahead of the curve in Indonesia that its CEO Tiyo Avianto is focusing Cubeacon s distribution in the Japanese market for the time being. Cubeacon uses a BLE (Bluetooth Low Energy) sensor that was introduced by Apple under the name of iBeacon in 2013. iBeacon sensors are made to be placed indoors, for instance inside a shop. These sensors can detect a customer s position within the shop very precisely, and they can send offers or information relevant to that location directly to a customer s phone (so long as they have Bluetooth turned on). Potentially, hundreds of sensor units can be installed across one location. Along with its sensor units, which Cubeacon calls a Cubeacon Box, the company delivers customizable software which shop owners can configure depending on their context and requirements, for example to receive analytics and maps, and to deliver custom ads, or push notifications.  At this time we can produce about 2,500 Cubeacon units per month,  Avianto says. Cubeacon hopes to tap into the big budgets that major companies have at hand for their customer loyalty programs.  Cubeacon exists to bring a different experience to customer loyalty,  he says. Cubeacon s revenue is based on hardware unit sales, but it also charges for its software on a subscription-based model. For large companies, Cubeacon s software can be white labelled, meaning that it can be branded and adapted to suit the firm s needs. It even allows the integration of other iBeacon-based devices, which makes the software attractive for developer companies who are already experts in the technology.