Facebook Adds Free Video Calls to Messenger App: Facebook is adding free video calls to its Messenger communications app, showing how quickly it is raising its game in a battle with other global tech behemoths to dominate every form of mobile communications. Just last month, the company introduced a feature that lets Messenger users to send money to each other. A few days later, it opened up Messenger to outside developers, and now users can download dozens of apps to send funny GIFs, personalized emoji and other enhanced messages. Video calling fills a major hole in the Messenger service, which has about 600 million users worldwide and has evolved from instant messages sent within the Facebook social network into a standalone app. Competitors such as Google s Hangouts, Microsoft s Skype, Apple s Facetime, and Tencent s WeChat have all offered video calling for some time. The company said in a blog post Monday that it has begun rolling out the Messenger upgrade to Android and iOS users in about 18 countries, including the United States, Mexico and much of Europe, and it should be available across the globe within the next few weeks. Facebook hopes to replicate the success it had with free voice calling in Messenger, which was first offered in 2013 but really took off a year ago after a major update to the software made it easier to use. Since then, Messenger calls have grown to about 10 percent of all mobile voice calls globally, Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook s chief executive, told investors on Wednesday when reporting the company s first-quarter financial results. The video calling feature is a way to spontaneously upgrade from a text conversation when the participants think video is necessary, said Stan Chudnovsky, Facebook s head of product for messaging, in an interview. That contrasts with the typical use of other video messaging services such as Skype or Hangouts, which are more oriented towards planned video calls.  We just think we are serving different use cases,  he said. The calls are encrypted and Facebook cannot eavesdrop on them, Mr. Chudnovsky said. Facebook designed the video feature to adapt to the connection on each side, so calls in places with weak cellular data networks will be at lower resolution than those on a fast Wi-Fi network. 