Sources: Amazon Plans  Prime For Business,  Folding AmazonSupply Into Big B2B Play: TechCrunch has been told by sources that Amazon is now doubling down on its B2B supply marketplace. The focus will be on Amazon for Business, complete with extra features that will be offered only to registered business customers. Think of it as  Prime for Business.  According to sources briefed on the matter, as a consequence of this, Amazon plans to shutter AmazonSupply, its existing B2B portal for hardware, lab & scientific, health & safety, sanitation and office supplies that Amazon dubs  The store for business and industry.  One source says the closure of AmazonSupply will happen by the end of this year, with the products that it offers there instead folded into Amazon.com and the bigger Amazon for Business offering, not unlike Amazon s closure of Endless in the shoe and fashion category and folding that into its fashion category in 2012. Aside from our own sources, it seems others have also been hearing similar murmurs of AmazonSupply getting folded into Amazon.com. And in other markets, like India, Amazon is launching B2B supply services doing away with the AmazonSupply brand altogether, opting instead for Amazon for Business. Whether it s called AmazonSupply or Amazon for Business, it s a big opportunity for the company. A Forbes article profiling AmazonSupply and the opportunity of B2B wholesale sales noted that in the U.S. alone there was $7.3 trillion worth of goods sold to businesses according to the last U.S. Census, compared to $4 trillion for retail sales (the area we know Amazon for best these days).  Our goal is to supply everything needed to rebuild civilization,  Amazon notes rather ambitiously on its job openings page for the B2B effort. The  Prime -style tier that our sources tell us is being planned   we don t know what actual name it will have or whether it will just be called  Amazon for Business    for registered users will have various perks. They will include special pricing for items; bulk discounts; medical and lab registration; and items available only to business customers (for example, chemicals and medical devices available only for registered hospitals and labs). As with the Prime badge for retail consumers, items with special B2B features will be highlighted in a special color.