America's car market is being disrupted by online retailers: To say that Beepi is disruptive, in this age of disruptions, sounds clich d. Yet after just a year of operation in California, Beepi is now buying and selling hundreds of cars a month and is on track to book revenue of $100 million over the next year, the company said. The start-up has raised nearly $80 million in financing and it plans to expand to seven additional regions nationwide by the end of the year. Beepi s rapid growth illustrates something deeper about the role the digital world keeps playing in our lives: There s no limit to it. A few years ago, it seemed reasonable to assume there were some sectors of the economy that would resist the pull of the Internet and which most people felt were better left offline. Shopping for groceries or eyeglasses, say; now both those tasks are moving online. Beepi and similar competitors, including Carlypso and Carvana, are pushing people to cross another threshold on the way toward a digital-only life. Although auto experts doubt that online-only car-buying experiences will become the norm, it would be wise not to discount their rise, for the simple reason that the Internet remains hungry. As people grow more accustomed to doing pretty much everything over computers and phones, the Internet tends to consume everything in its path. When Mr. Resnik began investigating the auto sales industry, he found that more than 90 percent of American car buyers consulted the Internet for purchases and a rising number of people worldwide say they would buy a car entirely online. According to a study by the research firm Capgemini, about a third of Americans and two-thirds of Chinese who were asked said they would buy a car over the web. To Mr. Resnik, the latent consumer interest was a starting point, and along with a friend, Owen Savir, he set out to create a system to bring to car shopping all the conveniences we ve grown used to with other online purchases.  We just thought that the car market was broken,  Mr. Resnik said. At the core of Beepi s business model is a pricing trick. There are three relevant prices for any used car. The trade-in price, which is what a dealer will give you for your car; the private sales price, which is what you can get if you sold it directly to someone else; and the retail price, which is the price the car will command at a dealership. Dealers pay the trade-in price for vehicles and then sell them at the retail price. On some cars, that spread can be worth 50 percent. Beepi thinks it can make a profit while operating within a tighter pricing band. When you list your car with the site, the company s pricing algorithm, which consults data on historical car sales in your area, offers a price at least $1,000 more than you can get by trading in your car at the dealer. That is still less than what you would get selling privately, but Beepi s price is guaranteed. If your car doesn t sell within 30 days of listing on Beepi, the company will buy it from you. On the other side of the transaction, Beepi sells cars at prices lower than comparable certified used cars at dealerships. It can do so, the founder says, because its overhead is lower   it doesn t have to maintain parking lots to house cars, because the vehicles stay with the sellers until they are sold. Also, because it buys and sells cars over a wide area   currently, any city in California and Arizona   it can take advantage of supply and demand disparities in different regions. Finally, Beepi caps its own fee at 9 percent, depending on price and demand (it will take as little as 1 percent).  When you put it together, we think you can give more to sellers, more to buyers, and make up to 9 percent of the price,  Mr. Resnik said. But if Beepi is faster, more convenient, and a better financial deal than the traditional car market, it also suffers one huge downside. Beepi does not let buyers test-drive cars before buying. Instead, it takes a page from other online retailers  return policies. Like a pair of shoes from Zappos, Beepi s cars come with a 10-day, try-it-out money-back guarantee. If you aren t satisfied, the company will send a truck to take the car away free. The company positions this as better than a dealer s test-drive.  It s a 10-day test drive,  Mr. Savir said. But that could be a tough sell. Mr. Resnik of Beepi said  only a handful of people have returned their cars, at a rate  much, much lower than 1 percent.  And he isn t worried that there won t be consumer demand in buying cars without a test-drive.  As people buy more and more online, they re getting used to it,  he said.  It s going to happen. 