"Apple Won t Always Rule. Just Look at IBM" In a few short years, Apple has become the biggest company on the planet by market value   so big that it dwarfs every other one on the stock market. It dominates the Standard & Poor s 500-stock index as no other company has in 30 years. Apple s market capitalization   the value of all of the shares of its stock   is more than $758 billion, greater than any other company s. Yet the Wall Street consensus is that Apple is still having a growth spurt. In fact, if Apple s watches, phones, laptops and other gadgets and services keep generating favorable publicity   and if its quarterly earnings report on Monday is as strong as the market expects it to be   there s a reasonable chance that Apple s value will keep swelling. Not far down the road, it might even reach the $1 trillion level that some hedge funds predict. But even if Apple still has some room to run, there are some early warning signs. After all, the company has already crossed a significant threshold. In February, it grew to twice the size of the next biggest company in the S.&P. 500, a rare feat of financial dominance, and one that hasn t happened since Ronald Reagan was president. I checked the numbers with Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at S.&P. Dow Jones Indices. He found that the last market colossus to tower over its competitors by a two-to-one ratio was IBM, which did it in three successive years: 1983, 1984 and 1985.  That was when PCs were new,  he said,  and just about everyone thought IBM would rule the world.  Now it s Apple s world. Apple is the most widely held stock in American mutual fund portfolios. IBM, the former undisputed heavyweight champion, isn t even in the running anymore. It ranks 62nd, according to a Morningstar analysis performed at my request. IBM is still an important company, but it is struggling. Investors judge it to be worth less than one-quarter of Apple s market value today. What happened to IBM   how it became this small, in comparison with Apple   is worth remembering. IBM thrived for years afterward, but just as Jobs had predicted, it turned out to be vulnerable to disruptive change, as all big companies are. For decades now, IBM has engaged in a sometimes painful transition, and as it revealed in its quarterly earnings report last week, it is still hurting: Its revenues have declined and it has endured wrenching business shifts. My colleague Steve Lohr wrote last week that IBM has been getting out of slow-growing old businesses, like personal computers, disk drives, low-end server computers and chip manufacturing   but its new initiatives in fields like data analytics, cloud computing and mobile apps for corporate customers haven t entirely succeeded yet. In a turnabout, IBM s mobile app strategy relies on a partnership with the current giant, its old nemesis Apple. IBM is leveraging its prowess with supercomputers and artificial intelligence with a new initiative, Watson Health, that includes Apple. That alliance could help both companies grow   in Apple s case, by ensuring that its products work more seamlessly in corporate environments where IBM is deeply entrenched. Rapid growth, after all, isn t a sure thing, especially when you re already the biggest company in the world. IBM has proved that. Sooner or later, Apple investors will have to take that lesson to heart.