Twitter invests in Swirl, a beacon-based ad-targeting startup: Swirl, which offers a platform for retailers and brands to market to customers via beacons, announced Thursday it has raised $18 million from a handful of investors, including Twitter Ventures.Other investors in the Series C round include Hearst Ventures and Softbank Capital, both who have funded Swirl in the past. Beacons are a young, Bluetooth-powered technology that provides the potential for companies to specifically target in-store customers. A retailer could realize that a customer has been dwelling near its TVs for 15 minutes, and send a coupon for a 4K TV via a smartphone push notification. In one recent success story, American Eagle Outfitters found it was able to increase the likelihood of a customer trying on clothes when it used beacons to send customers a push notification. Still, beacons have a ways to go before gaining mainstream adoption. A sticking point has been ensuring customers have the relevant app installed on their smartphone, which acts as a tripwire of sorts and tips off the store of the consumer s location. If a customer doesn t have the right app, they ll never receive the notification. This is what makes the interest of social networks such as Twitter and Facebook so noteworthy.  Everybody s got one of these widely distributed apps on their phone,  said Swirl chief executive Hilmi Ozguc.  That s where the whole picture is completed, and that s what s exciting about this.  Facebook announced in January it is testing using beacons at eight stores in New York City. Twitter declined to comment on its interest in beacons. With a treasure trove of information about users, social networks are already well-positioned to target advertisements at an extremely granular level. Facebook and Twitter could potentially take this another step forward, and fine-tune ads for users  exact locations at a given moment. They could likely charge a hefty premium for such ads.  There s a vast market potential here. And it s going to be a big source of new mobile advertising revenue for a lot of companies,  Ozguc said.  From Facebook to Twitter, to you name it. So I think you ll see a lot of these big guys start to make some moves and bets on the space and start offering the benefits they bring, this massive audience reach. 