As Amazon parties on, some large fund managers take their leave: For many years, investors have been very tolerant as Amazon.com has sacrificed profits for rapid growth in sales and as it built new businesses. That patience may finally be wearing thin. The average large-cap fund that holds Amazon has 1.4 percent of its assets in the stock, down 23 percent from this time last year, according to the latest available Lipper data. There are 116 funds with more than $1 billion under management that have either reduced or sold all of their holdings in the Internet retailer over the past 12 months. They include such well-known names as Fidelity Contrafund, Washington Mutual Investors Fund, Touchstone Sands Select Growth fund and the T. Rowe Price Growth fund. Some investors and analysts said that such a drop in fund ownership - in a period when Amazon's shares have been climbing - suggests that large-cap managers increasingly see the company as over-valued, particularly at a time when it is spending tons of cash branching off into everything from selling its own smartphone to producing a Woody Allen TV series. What strikes some investors as different this time around is the widening divergence between Amazon's valuation and that of its large technology peers like Apple Inc and Google Inc, both of which are growing at similar rates. Amazon trades at 16.2 times its book value. Apple, by comparison, trades at 6.5 times its book value, according to Thomson Reuters data. Google, another company which has expanded beyond its core business into lines as far afield as driverless cars, is valued at 3.4 times its book value. The others made big profits last year while Amazon was unprofitable. While Google has posted more than $68 billion in profits before taxes between 2010-2014, Amazon has netted just $2.6 billion over the same time frame, according to Thomson Reuters data. The cashflow is a better gauge of how the company is doing, according to Robert S. Peck, an analyst at SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, who downgraded the company to "neutral" on March 9 because he views the shares as overvalued. He estimates its free cash flow from operations will climb to $8.9 billion this fiscal year from $3.4 billion in 2010, yet nearly all of that additional cash is being used to expand into businesses like grocery delivery or web services.