Ebay earnings: revenue up 4% Y/Y to $4.45B; marketplace revenue shrinks first time since 2009, but PayPal growth compensates. Stock up 6%. EBay on Wednesday reported earnings of $626 million for the quarter that ended March 31, swinging back to profitability after a $2.32 billion loss in the same period a year ago that included a hefty one-time tax charge. Excluding the charge, the company s income grew 4.8 percent from a year ago. Revenue rose 4 percent, to $4.45 billion, surpassing estimates of $4.42 billion. The results illustrate a divergence in eBay s two businesses. Sales in the company s marketplace business fell 4 percent to $2.07 billion from a year ago, a lackluster showing that continued the trend of declining e-commerce growth over the past four quarters. It is the unit s first year-over-year revenue drop since 2009. In contrast, the company s PayPal electronic payments unit posted revenue of $2.1 billion, up 14 percent from $1.85 billion a year ago. It was the first time PayPal s sales exceeded that of the marketplace business. With the separation, the company is also cutting 2,400 positions, or 7 percent of its global work force. EBay has also said it would explore a sale or a possible initial public offering of eBay Enterprise, the warehouse and logistics unit for third-party sellers. A split may leave the marketplace business particularly vulnerable. For months, executives have pointed to problems with Google s search algorithms and fallout from a huge security breach as reasons for weak e-commerce momentum. The company is in the process of updating its systems to improve search results both on eBay and in outside search engines, Mr. Donahoe said, a process that could take more than a few quarters. Analysts are eager to see positive results. PayPal is still growing, fueled by high-performing assets like Braintree and Venmo, which are mobile-focused payments divisions that eBay acquired in recent years. Venmo, Mr. Donahoe has said, is enormously popular with young audiences. Braintree is angling to reinvent PayPal s payments business to be easier to use on mobile devices. But there is wariness that such growth will not come soon enough, especially as large companies like Apple, as well as payments start-ups like Stripe and Adyen, gain market share.