Start-Up Blends Old-Fashioned Matchmaking and Algorithms: Dating Ring uses an algorithm to generate potential matches and then a matchmaker combs through those to hand-select dates. The company s hybrid model represents the tip of a backlash against mobile dating apps like Tinder, where matches are based almost solely on appearance. Mark Brooks, an Internet dating analyst and consultant, said although there is still plenty of interest in online dating,  People also want relationships that begin based on more than your gut reaction to a photo,  he said.  This model is very new, this merging of Internet dating and matchmakers.  Several new start-ups, like SparkStarter, Hinge and Coffee Meets Bagel, don t use matchmakers per se but do use connections   friends and friends of friends on Facebook   to humanize the process and move beyond algorithmic matching. Dave Evans, the founder of Digicraft, an online dating consultancy, said,  The whole industry now is built on smoke, mirrors and a lot of marketing. We re at the point where I don t care how old you are, what you find interesting, even where you live. I m just going to swipe left or right based on how you look.  Melissa Brady, a 37-year-old Dating Ring client in White Plains, N.Y., loves the idea of a matchmaker being involved.  It makes me more excited to go on the date, because I have more hope for it,  she said. Ms. Brady has used other dating sites, including OKCupid and Coffee Meets Bagel, but found those dates less well-suited to her. A key part of Dating Ring s model is user feedback   given to the matchmaker after every date   which is then used to keep improving a dater s experience. The matchmakers are all women who work at least 10 hours a week and want a flexible schedule. The company has begun operating in New York, San Francisco, Los Angeles and Boston. Dating Ring charges $240 for three months with one introduction each week; anyone can become a member of the database free and be eligible for matches with paying clients. The company s V.I.P. service includes a one-hour, in-person consultation and multiple Skype feedback sessions in a package tailored to the client. The average price for a V.I.P. package is $3,500 and for that, a client gets five dates in five months. Ms. Kay and Ms. Tessler have also begun setting up speed-dating events for members in New York and San Francisco.  They sold out within two days,  Ms. Kay said. Revenue now averages about $35,000 a month but growth fluctuates, Ms. Kay said.  Some months it s 50 percent and other months it s 5 percent,  she says.  Right now, we re pretty much breaking even.  The company received a $100,000 initial investment from Y Combinator and raised an additional $255,000 from angels.