Shyp, an On-Demand Mailing Service, Raises $50 Million: Shyp, a company that lets customers summon workers to quickly pick up, pack and ship parcels, said on Tuesday that it has raised $50 million in venture capital, the largest funding round in the start-up s history. The new round values Shyp at just above $250 million, according to two people with knowledge of the financial terms, who requested anonymity because the deal talks were private. A Shyp spokesman declined to comment on the company s valuation. The funding is another significant bet on the future of on-demand start-ups by Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, the storied venture capital firm that led Shyp s new financing round and that recently won a case against a former partner who alleged gender bias at the firm. With the round, which also includes participation by previous investors Homebrew and SherpaVentures, John Doerr, a Kleiner executive, will join the board of directors at Shyp. Kleiner has also put money in to other on-demand companies like Uber and DoorDash. Uber, the on-demand ride-hailing service, has also dabbled in the business of moving goods from one place to another, signaling its ambitions to become a way to transport anything and everything to different places around the world. Shyp, on the other hand, piggybacks on existing transportation networks like UPS, FedEx and the United States Postal Service. Instead of doing all of the shipping itself, Shyp hires contract workers to pick up items from customers, and pack and ship them, eliminating the hassle of standing in line at the post office or finding the proper packaging supplies to send the items.  We asked ourselves, what is the ideal way to ship something   said Kevin Gibbon, chief executive of Shyp.  Can we scale this business to happen in multiple cities  Can we improve operations and logistics to make it cheaper and faster   Mr. Gibbon said his service was complementary to the shipping networks already in place, as Shyp s local logistics networks gather many packages together to hand them off to the actual companies doing the transportation, a task that he said would cost companies like DHL and FedEx much more in time, labor and resources to offer. Shyp makes a $5 service fee on each package it delivers. Shyp also announced it is opening up a pilot version of its service in Los Angeles; it currently operates in San Francisco, New York City and Miami.