"Notifications Are The Next Platform" TC Columnist Opines Push Notifications Replacing Search as Primary Engagement Point: Search (largely Google) has long been the access and discovery point for web services. This model was pull-driven (i.e. we proactively find information on websites as we need), and worked pretty well as large category killers (Facebook, Amazon) owned the lion s share of traffic (and revenue). Google was happily profitable owning the distribution channel. The mobile world started out as a pull-driven model   discovery and access was/is largely driven by a combination of the app store and the  grid of apps.  This model, however, is starting to break, as some significant trends are driving it to failure. Primary among these is the volume of information that s now available and regularly accessed; we have hundreds of apps on our phone (though we only actively engage with a handful), and without any real category killers, consumers are swapping new apps in and out at a regular pace. Most importantly, our engagement is now defined by push-driven notifications rather than the traditional pull-driven experience. We re  hunting and pecking  through our app grid a lot less; the apps that notify us (without over-notifying to the point of uninstall) are rewarded with our engagement (and our dollars). Based on this data, our fundamental belief is that notifications represent the future access and discovery point for mobile services   that notifications will be the starting point (or  front door ) for all of the interactions on your phone. Snowball data shows that over 60 percent of notifications are social messages (almost 40 per day). Will Facebook Messenger subsume the notification panel  Our data shows some interesting trends. As noted above, 60 percent of all notifications are social messages. However, our data also shows that users on average interact with 5.5 messaging apps weekly (does not count email)*. Though users regularly use over 5 social messaging apps, Facebook + WhatsApp represents an astounding 79 percent of all messaging by volume. This is incredibly high. Notifications represent the future app interface, and Facebook is making a bold play to own them. Whatever party is successful will have to be thoughtful about social messages, as they represent the bulk of notifications by volume. What we re seeing today is the first step toward monetization of the OS and the emergence of a new important distribution channel, and apps and platforms would be wise to think critically about it.