Google Adds  Mobile Friendliness  to Its Search Criteria: (More here) Many businesses around the world could wake up on Tuesday to discover their search ranking has been downgraded. After a monthslong warning period, Google will add  mobile friendliness  to the 200 or so factors it uses to list websites on its search engine. As a result, websites that don t meet Google s criteria will tumble in its all-important rankings. Google has made several big changes. Companies will be docked for shortcomings like displaying links that are hard to click or forcing users to scroll horizontally on a lopsided site. In addition, the company recently announced that in certain cases it would also use information contained within apps as a ranking factor for mobile searches performed on phones that run its Android software. while Google remains the dominant search engine on every computing platform, its grasp on the mobile market is slipping in the face of increased competition from  native  apps expressly meant for mobile devices. Google grabbed 68 percent of the $8.75 billion in mobile search revenues last year, down from an 81 percent share in 2012. But the mobile ad market more than tripled to $8.7 billion over that time, according to eMarketer. Google has for years been the world s most widely used search engine and a significant generator of traffic to websites, from major news organizations to mom-and-pop shops. Websites have little choice but to adapt to what Google considers important characteristics.  People will kick and scream, they always do,  said Rebecca Lieb, an industry analyst at the Altimeter Group.  But ultimately this serves as a wake-up call that things change and Google is going to change with it.  Google s search algorithm is a closely guarded secret, so the company would not say exactly how much mobile would factor into rankings. Still, it said in a blog post that the change would have  a significant impact  on search results, and it has tried to prepare websites by telegraphing the move two months in advance and giving them tips on how to improve their performance.