IBM Earnings: 12th straight quarterly decline in revenue; shares flat on earnings beat. More here IBM reported earnings on Monday that surpassed Wall Street s estimates, helped by solid sales of its new mainframe computers, even as its revenue fell. Cloud computing revenue surged 75 percent, and IBM s large data analytics business grew by more than 20 percent, excluding the effect of currency fluctuations. IBM reported a 5 percent decline in net income to $2.4 billion. But the company reported a 4 percent increase, to $2.9 billion, in operating profits from continuing operations. On an earnings-per-share basis, earnings rose 9 percent to $2.91 a share. That was well above the consensus of Wall Street analysts of $2.80 a share. Revenue for the quarter fell 12 percent to $19.6 billion. But the falloff was almost entirely attributable to a strong dollar and the company s planned exits from less-profitable businesses, especially its industry-standard data center computers, which it sold to Lenovo of China last fall. Most of IBM s business is outside the United States, so a stronger dollar translates to lower reported revenue. In fact, eight percentage points of the revenue decline, or $1.7 billion, was because of the currency effect. The mainframe business remains critical to IBM. The machines themselves contribute only about 2 percent of the company s revenue today. But when mainframe-related software, storage, services and financing are included, the overall business represents an estimated 24 percent of corporate revenue and 37 percent of operating profits. Take away the currency effect and the sold-off operations, and IBM s revenue would have been flat from the year-earlier quarter. Even so, flat revenue is not growth. IBM s reported revenue has declined for 12 consecutive quarters. Some of the decline has been by design as IBM sheds operations with lower profit margins, as it has for years, getting out of personal computers, disk drives and most recently low-end server computers and chip manufacturing. In a research report last week, Mr. Sacconaghi identified three major challenges confronting IBM. Cloud computing, he wrote, will most likely hurt IBM s traditional hardware and software business more than the growth in its own cloud business will help. The second threat, according to Mr. Sacconaghi, is the overall effect on hardware and software sales of the decline in its business that sells large servers running the Unix operating system. The third danger, he wrote, is the decline in its traditional outsourcing business, in which IBM runs the computer operations of its corporate customers. Shares in the company were mostly flat in after-hours trading.