Twitter makes it possible to send personal messages to anyone: Twitter has made it possible for any user to send  a direct message to any other user, the company announced in a blog post Monday. Under the old settings, users could only direct-message those who followed them -- which sometimes meant that you had to ask people to follow you in order to send them a personal message. Now, those days are over, if you so choose. The change is opt-in, meaning that you don't have to open your mailbox to the public if you don't want to --  and that you can turn it off if you don't like it. Twitter now also allows users to reply to anyone who sends them a direct message, regardless of who follows whom. If you want to turn on the feature, you can head to your settings page and select the "Receive Direct  Messages from anyone" option.  Once you do that, a new messaging button will appear on your mobile profile pages.  (To send a message from the Web, users should still go to the "Messages" tab and hit "New Message.") Twitter makes the case that if would be useful for businesses to field compliments or complaints from their customers without having to follow each of them individually. From a certain point of view, that makes sense: the company has been under pressure lately to up growth, revenue and engagement on its social network. Catering to businesses, and giving them an easy way to interact with customers, is a way to accomplish all those goals. But the feature can also increase the chances for spam or abuse.  To address those issues with this new feature, company said on its help page that users who've enabled this feature can block the sender to stop receiving messages. Obviously, this won't prevent that sender from creating a new account and sending more messages -- a common trolling and spamming tactic -- but it's a start.  Twitter also limits the number of direct messages anyone can send per day to 1,000 messages, and reserves the right to suspend an account temporarily if someone sends identical messages to multiple accounts in a short period of time.