India Startup Action: Freshdesk - first Google Capital investee outside the US - raises $50M in Series E funding from Tiger Global, Accel & Google Capital: Chennai- and US-based Freshdesk Inc, a provider of SaaS-based customer support platform for enterprises, has raised $50 million (Rs 314 crore) in Series E round of funding from its three existing investors. Tiger Global led the investment with Accel Partners and Google Capital also participating in the round, it said on Monday. The funds will be used in enhancing its products for its Freshdesk and Freshservice support platforms. Freshdesk is a cloud-based customer support platform, which aims to make it easy for brands to talk to their customers and for users to get in touch with businesses. It was started to provide email and website integration customer support, and later launched phone-based Twitter and Facebook support as well. It recently launched Freshservice, a SaaS IT service desk that is providing a modern alternative to complex legacy IT support systems. In June 2014, it had raised $31 million (Rs 195 crore) in a Series D round of funding led by Tiger Global. Original early-stage investor Accel also participated in that round which also saw Google Capital coming in as a new investor. Freshdesk competes with California-headquartered Zendesk Inc, which went public last year, and Salesforce.com, which offers customer service tools aimed at SMBs and larger enterprises. First Google Capital investee outside the US: Freshdesk was the first company outside the US to get backing from Google Capital, one of the two venture capital arms of the American search giant. While Google Ventures is more of an early stage investor, Google Capital focuses on the growth stage. So the doubling down on the Chennai-based startup recognizes that it s on a fast track to scale up globally.  Freshdesk offers a compelling, modern customer experience delivered with cloud-scale cost and flexibility. We are excited to support Freshdesk with additional investment,  says Gene Frantz, general partner with Google Capital. According to Mathrubootham, the association added to the Freshdesk mojo in more ways than one. On the marketing front, especially. For example, after Google Capital came on board, an expert from Google India did an in-depth analysis that helped Freshdesk zero in on the geographies where there was high demand for its software. It threw up insights like where people were searching for Freshdesk software, how the overall market for customer support was evolving, and how Freshdesk s marketing campaign was working in different markets.  It had county-by-county data for the US on how the Freshdesk brand was being perceived. It was brilliant. We were able to see where we were strong or weak and tweak our Google AdWords campaign to exploit it more,  Mathrubootham shares with Tech in Asia, adding that he is still working closely with Google on this.