As Advertising on Facebook gets Expensive, Some US Advertisers Switch back to TV: In the pre-Facebook era, with no budget for TV, newspaper or radio advertising, this would have meant we had no feasible way to gain quality exposure at a large scale for years. The Facebook advertising platform changed the course of that fate: We could now bootstrap our marketing   and that was revolutionary. Facebook offered a genuinely disruptive solution with three core strengths. First, it was one of the only platforms that allowed you to accurately measure your results in real-time, letting startups do what they do best   be agile. Second, it provided a superior level of targeting. Want to advertise only to women aged 20-23, who live in Minneapolis, have an annual income of $40K, drive a Mini Cooper and listen to Kendrick Lamar  You got it. To put this in context, to this day, Twitter doesn t even know the gender of its followers. Third, and most importantly, combining real-time measurable results and superior targeting meant we could scale up quickly. Our marketing dollars on Facebook went a long way, and accurate targeting strategies on our end allowed our tiny budget to catapult the business to $1 million revenues in 2012. Facebook users are clicking more, and advertisers are paying for more clicks. But what are users really clicking on  Facebook calculates its CPCs as cost per every single click the user makes, whether it s a Like, a share, or a visit to the brand s website. But in the world of direct-response advertising, where  engagement  is an obscure term (whose impact on either sales or brand awareness no one knows how to measure), Likes and shares are worth absolutely nothing. This is how the real surge of Facebook prices is disguised: For us, Facebook CPCs   cost per any Facebook click   went up 50 percent from January 2014 to January 2015. But our real CPC value   cost per Facebook click to our website   went up by a whopping 127 percent in the same time period. That means that our real Facebook prices have more than doubled YoY, and a sizable chunk of that price increase is due to a service of Likes and shares valued at zero. Large corporate brands are unaware that a hefty share of their Facebook spend is attributed to Likes and shares; newcomers and the biggest spenders on Facebook don t fully realize what they re paying for. Same goes for Facebook s targeting. Yes, Facebook offers superior targeting, but unless you re running a narrow-niche business, the benefits of targeting have their limits. If I had a business selling on-demand $10K caviar jars that deliver only to Manhattan s Upper East Side, I would be very excited by Facebook s granular targeting. But the biggest spenders on Facebook are mass-market brands looking for mass-market exposure, and while they may have the option to target by specific neighborhoods, elementary schools or favorite books, they have no business reason to do so. Facebook may be developing more granular targeting capabilities, but its biggest spenders don t really need it. Big spenders on Facebook are paying a premium for a service they don t use or need. Today, with its 2014 $6 billion advertising revenues in the U.S. alone, Facebook is exhibiting all the alarming symptoms of a bubble: a service traded in high volumes at inflated and economically irrational prices. we took the plunge and launched a national TV campaign on MTV, Bravo, Lifetime and other networks. When the results were in, we had to rub our eyes to believe it: The CPAs on TV weren t that far off from Facebook. If I needed any further proof of the Facebook bubble and its irrationally inflated prices, there it was: Acquiring new customers on Facebook with an expert online team, optimized spend and single-image creative was almost as expensive as a full-fledged TV campaign, with third-party agency fees, not-yet-optimized spending, and three different pricey video creatives. In 2015, we have scaled back on our Facebook spend by almost two-thirds and plan to divert that budget into TV advertising. And we re not alone. Other startups such as Birchbox, Dollar Shave Club and BaubleBar are going into TV, as well, and at least in our case, this is entirely at the expense of Facebook.