Three Months After IPO, Box, Provider of Cloud-Computing Services, Faces Make-or-Break Moment: Box conducted an initial public offering in January, but had already raised more than $500 million privately. It employs 1,200 people and is considered on the cutting edge of a new generation of companies that provide services to big business customers over cloud-computing systems. Now comes the hard part   survival. Box today is worth $2.1 billion, but losses are continuing to add up while revenue is not growing enough to suit Wall Street s tastes. The company s shares are down 25 percent since it went public. And rival services from tech heavyweights like Amazon and Microsoft threaten Box s business. In its last fiscal year, Box lost $167 million on revenue of $216 million. That was a 74 percent revenue gain from the year before, with a 5 percent bigger net loss. This year, revenue is expected to grow by about 30 percent, a marked slowdown that Mr. Levie hopes the new developer strategy may also turn around. As of its latest earnings report, in March, Box had $330 million in cash.  Mr. Levie and his company are nearing a make-or-break point others in this generation of young companies are also likely to soon face: Find a way to cut those losses and stay ahead of deep-pocketed competition or disappear. For Box to compete, it has to get other people to build great things on what it has built in the same way Apple and Google got app makers to create tools that made their mobile software indispensable. At a company conference this week, Box, which has so far focused on Internet data storage and collaboration technology, will explain how it plans to help other businesses build their own cloud services. The goal is to create a so-called ecosystem that ensures continued growth just as Microsoft did with PCs and Apple did with the iPhone. If the plan does not work, it is doubtful that Box will survive as an independent company, and Mr. Levie, for all those high hopes, will become a footnote, someone with a great idea who could not quite turn it into a lasting business.