Facebook Seeks to Edge Out YouTube - Pushes Publishers for Exclusive, Optimized Content: Hosting exclusive programming appears to be Facebook's latest move toward becoming a dominant player in streaming video. BuzzFeed and ABC's Jimmy Kimmel Live also recently struck a deal with Facebook, while a number of other publishers say they have projects in the works. There is a strong push to provide exclusive content to Facebook, which the social network is "aggressively" asking for, say several publishers contacted by Adweek. One publisher who requested anonymity noted that while posting a YouTube link to his video on Facebook produced weak results, the same content posted directly to Facebook led to millions of views. Facebook, he said, had "no desire" to see YouTube's preroll ads on its platform as it affected the user experience. "Most companies know that a best practice on Facebook is that an image of a video performs better than a direct link [to a third-party player]," noted Paul Kontonis, executive director of the Global Online Video Association. "But Facebook native video performs better than everything." While Facebook has done a limited number of video ad deals, publishers have been told traditional ads are on the way. In the meantime, sources said the social network will announce the expansion of branded-content program Facebook Anthology at a meeting with publishers, brands and agencies in New York on April 22. Anthology connects advertisers with publishers to create Facebook-native content Budweiser's 2013 Made in America partnership with Vice, for example. Other Anthology participants include Vox, The Onion and Funny or Die. The finely tuned targeting capabilities around Facebook video are grabbing the attention of marketers. And no wonder. Facebook targeting by age, gender and location boasts up to 94 percent accuracy while its video player can derive deeper insights and metrics than other competitors, including YouTube, per Universal McCann. Still, said Kevin Cronin, partner, search and social at UM, YouTube remains the leading platform for driving views overall. He cautions that if Facebook is asking publishers for exclusive content, marketers creating branded content might balk at having to limit that content to a single platform. James Crolley, media director at Starcom MediaVest, noted that while Facebook has an autoplay feature, videos can easily be passed over in a feed. The challenge, he said, is "it does require creative to be far more impactful."