Forcing Login Helps Facebook Solve the Global Cookie Shortage: The company tracks app users across devices to prove ads work. For advertisers, one of the Web s advantages over TV is the ability to track which ads get clicks and lead to sales. However, most mobile apps block cookies, leaving marketers blind. This cookie crunch has become a full-blown crisis as shopping on smartphones and tablets has exploded. Last year, U.S. marketers bought about $19 billion worth of ads on phones and $32 billion on PCs, according to researcher EMarketer; this year, the company estimates, the total will be $29 billion on phones and $30 billion on PCs. Enter Facebook, which promises the more than 1 million businesses that advertise through its Atlas Solutions network that they can follow 1.4 billion users from PCs to smartphones to tablets and back. To use Facebook, you have to log in, and the social network records identifying information about each device you ve logged in from. That data is stored in your profile, so Facebook knows it s you online, even when you re visiting other sites. Atlas is an ad network, like Google s AdSense, that Facebook bought from Microsoft in 2013 and relaunched late last year. Its advantage lies in the depth of Facebook s knowledge of its consumers. Even though advertisers don t know the identity of specific users, the demographic information Facebook gives them, broken down by characteristics such as age and gender, can help them tailor ad campaigns for different audiences, says Jonathan Nelson, chief executive officer of Omnicom Digital, an early adopter of Atlas.  If you can connect the dots backwards, you can understand,  How did that happen     Nelson says.  That s a gold mine.  The Atlas network can also track Facebook users  behavior on other websites, says Brad Smallwood, vice president for marketing science. Retailers can embed special Atlas code into their websites or apps that detect whether a customer buying a blouse she saw on her mobile browser viewed a related ad on Facebook. Atlas is an important test for Facebook, which gets more than 90 percent of its revenue from ads, as it tries to boost its appeal to mobile advertisers and compete with Google. The search giant commanded 37 percent of U.S. mobile ad revenue in 2014, more than double Facebook s share, and has also begun tracking people across devices by using login data. Facebook s ads, however, are more tailored to individual users based on what it knows about them. 