Etsy Closes Up 86 Percent On First Day Of Trading: Etsy, the online marketplace for handmade goods, went public today. Shares opened at $31 on the NASDAQ, popping up 94 percent from the initial set price of $16 per share. The company closed its first day of trading at $30 per share, an 86% percent rise from its initial price. The company raised over $287 million by selling 16.7 million shares before trading, valuing the company at nearly $1.8 billion. Stock went up close to $35 by mid morning. Etsy is now worth more than $3.5 billion. The handmade crafts company is not yet turning a profit, but has seen year-over-year growth in revenue for the past few years, rocketing from $74.6 million in 2012, to $125 million in 2013 and to $195.59 million last year. It had 1.4 million active sellers and 19.8 million active buyers as of December. The success of the company s IPO bodes well for the technology liquidity market, as it could spur other firms waiting on the sidelines to pull the trigger on their own IPOs. The technology IPO market has been slow so far in 2015. Box listed its shares earlier this year, receiving a massive 70 percent day one pop. Box s shares, however, have since receded. The success of Etsy s IPO could shine especially bright for Shopify, another company that recently filed for its own initial offering. They are related, if not analogous companies; Shopify provides e-commerce tools to small and medium-sized business, a moderate contrast to Etsy s own solution. Still, the companies both track the aggregate dollar flow through their respective platforms. Etsy saw gross merchandise sales (GMS) in 2014 of $1.93 billion, while Shopify saw gross merchandise volume (GMV) of $3.76 billion in the same period. Etsy derives, as you expect, more revenue per dollar-through-platform given its intimate status as the marketplace network itself, in contrast to Shopify s SaaS solution that helps others build their own sales channels. Given the enthusiastic reception of Etsy by investors, Shopify might anticipate a similiary warm reaction given the shared overtones of the two companies. The latter company has yet to price.