European Regulators Are Stifling the Ad Business for Google, Facebook and Others: Regulators, consumers fight some of their best tactics: This week, Google was the latest, and perhaps the hardest hit, by the scrutiny overseas, as the European Union charged it with anti-trust practices by favoring its own Web properties in search results over rivals. Often, Google serves up results for shopping items to the detriment of e-commerce competitors, and it delivers instant reviews, keeping traffic away from rivals like Yelp. The ultimate penalty could force Google to change its search tactics, but the probe could also veer into other aspects of its business that impact advertising. Here in the U.S., regulators declined to label Google a search monopoly when they fully investigated the company in 2013, but they still closely watch how it competes with rivals and deals with consumers. The Mountainview, Calif.-company is not alone in these tense situations with European leaders. Facebook has been hit over user privacy, especially in Germany. The continent also is going after tech companies over taxes and security issues. The less the companies are able to operate freely, the less data they can accumulate, and the less finely tuned and less valuable their ads are, according to marketing experts. This week, industry research group eMarketer, which tracks global marketing spending, found social ad revenue is growing more slowly in western Europe than in North America or Asia. Meanwhile central and eastern Europe lagged further behind, and the disparity in overall digital growth was even greater. A number of factors drive digital ad dollars, but one is the ease with which tech companies can collect data on users, target ads and charge for such messages. European attitudes could hinder one of the most effective types of digital advertising, retargeting. "One of the main attractions to social media from advertisers (particularly to Facebook and Twitter, who own 75 percent of spending in this market) is the ability to use data to target customized audiences," said Dan Marcec, public relations director at eMarketer, in an email. "So any restriction on that would have an effect." Google wants to give brands new retargeting tools for search ads, according to reports this week. A source confirmed the company is interested in using advertisers' e-mail lists to do so. When reached for comment, Google said it always considers new products, but had nothing to share at this time. Another digital advertising source said Google's interest in retargeting could attract more regulatory spotlights. Fair or not, while Twitter and Facebook build fully integrated data machines for targeted ads across the Web, Google sometimes gets closer review in the U.S. and Europe. "It's clear Google is starting to think about using search to inform more advertising, and it runs a risk with regulators," the ad executive said, speaking on condition of anonymity. Some of Google's top rivals, including Microsoft, are said to be leading the charge in tipping off regulators about practices they see as unfair practices that touch on all corners of its business, like search, data, privacy and advertising.