The EU formally accused Google of abusing its dominance: The European Union s antitrust chief on Wednesday formally accused Google of abusing its dominance in web searches, bringing charges that could limit the giant American tech company s moneymaking prowess. How Google responds in the case   the biggest since the case against Microsoft in the 2000s   and to what degree the accusations hamper its own business or aid its rivals remain to be seen. Google holds a roughly 90 percent share in the region s search market, and the company contends that in both web searches and Android software it plays fair. If Google fails to rebut the formal charges, Ms. Vestager could levy a fine that could exceed  6 billion   about 10 percent of Google s most recent annual revenue. But the largest single fine yet levied in such a case falls well short of that mark: The record is  1.1 billion in 2009 against Intel for abusing its dominance of the computer chip market. The Google case is the most weighty decision by Ms. Vestager since she took office late last year. But the decision to open a separate investigation, into whether Google s use of its Android operating system, might turn out to be as significant. Regulators will look into whether Google abused its dominant position by pre-installing its apps and services onto Android smartphones that potentially gave Google preferential treatment compared with its rivals. The investigation could take years. More here: The European Union accused Google Inc on Wednesday of cheating consumers and competitors by distorting Web search results to favor its own shopping service, after a five-year investigation that could change the rules for business online. It also started another antitrust investigation into the Android mobile operating system, a key element in Google's strategy to maintain revenues from online advertising as people switch from Web browser searches to smartphone apps. Europe is very important to Google: The European market contributes about 35 percent of Google s revenue, according to Carlos Kirjner, a New York-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Its market share in search exceeds 90 percent in most European markets, compared with about 65 percent in the U.S. Google dropped as much as 1.4 percent to $523.22 in New York trading. The shares fell 1 percent to $525.30 at 10:25 a.m. local time.