Netflix Q1 earnings: Revenue +24% at $1.57B, shares soar 12% as subscriber count stands at 62M:  Netflix Inc. said its video-streaming service topped 62 million subscribers worldwide, as original shows such as  House of Cards  drew new viewers globally. The shares soared to a record high. U.S. subscribers jumped by 2.28 million in the first quarter, while international accounts rose 2.6 million, the Los Gatos, California-based company said Wednesday on its website. Both figures beat the company s Jan. 20 forecast. Sales grew 24 percent to $1.57 billion, matching analysts  projections. Netflix is investing heavily in original programming to keep the U.S. business growing and support Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings s international expansion. While new shows such as  Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt  and  Bloodline  drove U.S. viewing, the rise of the U.S. dollar trimmed sales and contributed to losses overseas, the company said.  Netflix remains a subscriber growth momentum story,  Paul Sweeney, a Bloomberg Intelligence analyst, said in an e-mail.  As long as domestic and international subscribers continue to grow, bulls will have a reason to buy the stock.  Netflix rose 12 percent to $534.07 in extended trading after results were announced. If that holds Thursday, it will mark an all-time high, with the market value of the company exceeding that of CBS Corp. The stock fell 0.7 percent to $475.46 at the close Wednesday in New York. So far this year, Netflix has advanced 39 percent, fourth-most among members of the Standard & Poor s 500 Index. First-quarter net income fell to $24 million, or 38 cents a share, from $53.1 million, or 86 cents, as the strong dollar contributed to losses outside the U.S. Excluding that, profit was 77 cents, the company said. Analysts forecast profit of 63 cents, the average of 35 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Original programming is taking larger slice of Netflix s content budget. The company s obligations, which grew 30 percent last year, now total $9.8 billion. The growth in subscribers justifies the increasing costs, according to Rich Greenfield, an analyst at BTIG Research. Netflix extended its service to Australia and New Zealand in March. It rolls out its streaming service in Japan later this year, its first market in Asia. The company plans to offer its service worldwide by the end of 2016, though it is unclear if that will include China. A report this week by UBS AG projected Netflix would reach 87 million subscribers outside the U.S. by 2020. That total now stands at 20.9 million. In total, Netflix forecasts 2.5 million new subscribers this quarter, including 600,000 in the U.S. and 1.9 million overseas.