Intel Q1 earnings: revenue flat at $12.8B, earnings up 3% at $2B; Shares up 3% on strong sales of chips for data centers, internet-of-things; capex cut: Intel reported that net income rose 3 percent to $2 billion, compared with the year-ago quarter. Intel s per-share income rose 8 percent, to 41 cents a share, reflecting a smaller number of shares outstanding because of stock buybacks. Revenue was flat, at $12.8 billion. The earnings were about even with Wall Street s expectations. Analysts forecast that Intel would make 41 cents a share on revenue of $12.9 billion, a survey by Thomson Reuters said. Intel shares increased 3 percent in after-hours trading. The earnings were not surprising, given slow PC sales. Last week, the research firm IDC said that worldwide first-quarter PC shipments were 68.5 million, a decline of 6.7 percent from the year-earlier period. That was slightly better than expected. Chips for PCs and related items make up over half of Intel s revenue. Intel was slow to move into mobile devices and is overshadowed there by companies like Qualcomm and ARM. Under Mr. Krzanich, who took over two years ago, Intel has redoubled its efforts to get into mobile devices. Progress has been slow, however, with significant financial losses. Other areas of Intel s business have fared better. Sales of chips for data centers were up 19 percent in the quarter. Intel expects that market to grow about 15 percent annually for several more years. A newer market, chips for the so-called Internet of Things, or appliances and other objects with a two-way network connection, grew 11 percent. That revenue was only $533 million, but Stacy Smith, Intel s chief financial officer, said annual growth in this area should be about 20 percent for many years. More on margins, mobile, Altera: Strength in the server unit is keeping profit margins healthy. Gross margin, or the percentage of sales left after deducting production costs, will be about 62 percent in the current period, Intel said. Analysts were predicting 61 percent. Last year, Intel s mobile business racked up operating losses of more than $4 billion as it paid subsidies to customers to build market share in tablet chips. This year, Intel Chief Executive Officer Brian Krzanich has promised to reduce that loss by about $800 million. Smith said the company is on track to meet that goal. As it struggles to boost its mobile business, Intel is seeking to make a bigger bet on the data-center market. The company held discussions to acquire chipmaker Altera Corp., according to people familiar with the talks. Buying Altera would bring in chips that are increasingly being used in data centers and help Intel put its factory network to greater use. Intel made a $54-a-share bid for Altera, which the programmable chipmaker s board has rejected, breaking off talks, people familiar with the negotiations said last week. Altera is now coming under pressure from its shareholders to reconsider Intel s offer, because they think it values Altera at more than what it can achieve itself, people with knowledge of the matter said. CapEx cut to improve cash flow: Intel said it would cut 2015 capital expenditures to $8.7 billion from $10 billion, a reduction that analysts said should improve free cash flow.