With click-to-shop ads, Instagram Takes Another Step Toward E-Commerce...: Instagram is running its first marketing campaigns that transform viewers into shoppers with a single click. Finally, retailers can link to product pages from their Instagram ads a feature Banana Republic was among the first to employ and still more sophisticated ads are in the works. The new ads are part of a carefully managed rollout of better marketing tools on the Facebook-owned photo-sharing app, which is starting to offer the sort of products brands have been demanding, especially in view of the $200,000 many of them are shelling out. And that's just the entry fee for buying ads on the platform, according to digital marketing executives familiar with Instagram's business. (Instagram declined to comment for this story.) "Instagram continues to tease big things coming," said one Hollywood marketing executive who buys ads on the platform. "And they're talking about more ways to integrate buying." Another ad executive revealed that, instead of a "Buy" button, Instagram would allow marketers to more easily link to checkout pages online. Yet even that step is a complicated undertaking, given that the app is largely a mobile experience. Sources reveal that more tools like this are on the horizon. Instagram is said to be considering a number of ad formats that could prove game changers for brands, similar to how Twitter built highly customizable ad cards that send users to products with ease. But because these changes would signal a fundamental change to how marketers use and customers experience the platform, Instagram is proceeding with caution, no doubt wary of displeasing its growing user base (now upwards of 300 million). Instagram introduced its first ads in late 2013 and since then has tried to maintain an image as a place for glossy campaigns as opposed to direct-response, click-driven efforts. The high price to advertise there is a reflection of the platform's self-fashioned air of exclusivity. "We're paying a premium on Instagram ads," the Hollywood executive said. Video ads are especially pricey, going for as much as $30 per 1,000 views, according to sources. Instagram is even attempting to get brands to rethink what success looks like by providing campaign data, aiming to prove that impressions boost sales more than garden-variety clicks.