Written-off and forgotten, but still going: Groupon Market Value Seen as High as $6 Billion With Divestments: Groupon Inc. could divest four businesses in the next two years, netting as much as $730 million, to raise cash as it expands into an e-commerce marketplace, according to Gene Munster, an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos. Groupon has a market value of about $5 billion, though it should be closer to $6 billion because those businesses are undervalued, Munster said. A majority stake in its Ticket Monster business, which offers daily deals and e-commerce services in South Korea, could fetch about $500 million, while smaller units might yield between $30 million and $100 million each, he said. With a stock that trades at little more than a third of its 2011 initial public offering price, Groupon has shifted its focus from e-mailed daily deals to competing with Amazon.com Inc. and EBay Inc. as a marketplace. To do so, it will need to sell some non-core properties to free up more cash to invest in the initiative, some analysts said. As of the end of December, the Chicago-based company had about $1 billion in cash and cash equivalents.  What is safe to say is that Groupon has several stealth assets that are generally underappreciated by investors as far as overall value,  said Munster, who is based in Minneapolis. Private equity firms are the most likely buyers, he said. Groupon shares have climbed 28 percent in the past six months to $7.39 in New York. Still they are 63 percent below the IPO price of $20 set in November 2011. Proceeds from the sales could help Groupon make acquisitions to expand its e-commerce operations, including online retailers or a payments business, Sweeney said. Another option -- buying a service that delivers food or goods to customers, Tom Taulli, the author of The Complete M&A Handbook, said in an interview. Or it could put the money into new fulfillment centers, Sweeney said. Groupon is testing Groupon Stores, where businesses can post their offerings. It s also testing movie downloads from its site.