Marissa Mayer Shuffles Yahoo Leadership Team; Tumblr Struggles Lead to Founder's Demotion: Marissa Mayer, Yahoo s chief executive, announced a major reorganization of the company s product teams on Friday, promoting the head of one recently acquired company and effectively demoting the chief of another. Under the new structure, Simon Khalaf, the Internet company s data-spouting prophet of mobile, will become a senior vice president and oversee many of the company s consumer-facing products, including the Yahoo home page, its portals devoted to themes like sports and movies, and related Yahoo apps. Mr. Khalaf joined Yahoo in July when it bought his mobile analytics company, Flurry, for about $300 million. Flurry, which offers data and advertising services to mobile app developers, has since become the core of Yahoo s efforts to compete with Google, Facebook and Twitter to persuade developers to use its tools. Mr. Khalaf, a rapid-fire speaker with a knack for presenting complex information simply and clearly, has become a crucial Yahoo ambassador to the outside world and played a starring role at Yahoo s recent mobile developer conference. As part of the reorganization, the blogging platform Tumblr and its chief executive, David Karp, will report to Mr. Khalaf, according to an internal announcement made at Yahoo Friday morning. Although Mr. Karp will remain part of the executive team, he will no longer report directly to Ms. Mayer, which he has done since he sold Tumblr to Yahoo for $1.1 billion in 2013. The move reflects Tumblr s struggles to broaden its appeal beyond its core audience of of artists, teenagers and 20somethings looking for a platform to express themselves. Tumblr has served as the technology behind Yahoo s digital magazines, but it has faced challenges in luring advertising. Tumblr s top ad executive, Lee Brown, recently left the company and joined BuzzFeed after Yahoo integrated Tumblr s ad sales with Yahoo s. Mike Kerns, the senior vice president who previously oversaw Yahoo s home page and verticals, is leaving the company to pursue entrepreneurial opportunities