Amazon, Google aim to be Home Services Marketplaces: Some of the biggest names in e-commerce, along with a growing pool of start-ups, are vying for a chunk of the fragmented, quotidian, heretofore entirely local market of electricians, plumbers, dog walkers and other manual labor, known broadly as home services. The work may be mundane but the money and stakes are huge. Angie s List, the 20-year-old subscription service that offers reviews of local service providers to members, estimates the home services industry is $400 billion. Others put it at more than $800 billion.  There are few pots of gold left as big as this on the Internet,  said Marco Zappacosta, chief executive and a co-founder of Thumbtack, a start-up that connects consumers with providers of a multitude of services, who then bid for their business. The idea is to bring the efficiency and capabilities of the web to some of the lowest-tech and least-transparent enterprises by connecting consumers with vetted service providers through online marketplaces. Most companies will then take a cut of each transaction that ensues. Last summer, Thumbtack received a big lift with a $100 million investment from Google Capital. Now, Google is exploring entering the same business itself. How Thumbtack fits into those plans is unclear, Mr. Zappacosta said. Other start-ups, like Pro.com, Porch and Redbeacon, are creating similar online marketplaces. Angie s List, meanwhile, is elevating its game   last year it introduced a mobile app, called SnapFix, that lets a homeowner take a photo of, say, a broken screen door and receive bids to fix it. The efforts shuddered last month when Amazon announced it was starting Amazon Home Services, which provides consumers with a list of vetted and insured professionals to do things like mount a new television. Price quotes and scheduling are available during the checkout process. Jeff Bezos, Amazon s founder and chief executive, had already invested in Pro.com, and Amazon is working in partnership with TaskRabbit, another player. Already, said Peter Faricy, vice president of Amazon Marketplace, the company has 2.4 million serve offers covering more 700 types of services.  I can tell you that with 85 million customers purchasing products from Amazon that needed installation or assembly, customers have told us that Amazon Home Services fills an important need,  he said. Of course, this is not just about building your cat tree or mounting your TV. For Amazon it is another step toward becoming the conduit through which we buy everything, not just goods but services and entertainment as well. Amazon also takes a cut of each transaction, 20 percent for a TV mounting job, for example. Meanwhile, the offerings are veering away from the everyday and into the wacky. Amazon s  other services  section lists goat grazing and  silk aerialist.   Amazon is always focused on having the widest selection on earth,  Mr. Faricy said,  and we will do the same with services. 