Teens aren t fleeing Facebook as quickly as some thought: It's not always clear how teens are really using social media these days. To explore the question, The Pew Research Center asked over 1,000 respondents, between ages 13 and 17, for their thoughts, and included them in a report published Thursday. Here are few key takeaways: Teen smartphone use is super, super high. A majority of teens have smartphones -- a fact that doesn't change even when looking at different income levels. Of teens who live in households that make less than $30,000 per year, 61 percent have access to a smartphone. Among the richest teens (households over $75,000), it's 78 percent.  Overall, a full 73 percent of teens have access to a smartphone; only 15 percent are rocking a basic phone. That also falls in line with what Pew found about adult smartphone use in a report released last week. Those anonymous apps  Not as popular as we may have thought. According to the Pew study, only 11 percent of all teen cell phone users use anonymous apps such as Whisper, YikYak and Ask.FM, which allow users to put up posts without revealing their identity. When these apps first came on the scene, they were seen as an outlet for teens who didn't want to be haunted by a digital footprint down the line. But the use isn't quite as high as researchers predicted. The study also found that girls use these sites slightly more than boys -- 13 percent of female respondents versus 8 percent among males. Facebook is still the number-one social media network among teens. Put your alarm bells away for now; Facebook isn't exactly withering on the vine among teens. Facebook is used by 71 percent of all teens, followed in popularity by the Facebook-owned Instagram and Snapchat. Even within the 13-17 age group, however, there are differences in Facebook use. Older teens, ages 15 to 17, are far more likely to use Facebook than younger teens, listing it along with Snapchat and Twitter as their go-to networks. The 13- and 14-year-olds, meanwhile, told researchers they are more likely to turn to Instagram.