India startup action #2: Urban Ladder raises $50M led by Sequoia & TR Capital: Urban Ladder, has secured $50 million in Series C round of funding led by Sequoia Capital and TR Capital. Existing investors Steadview Capital, SAIF Partners and Kalaari Capital also participated. Urban Ladder was launched in July 2012 and offers a curated range of over 4,000 products across more than 35 categories in furniture and home d cor. It was co-founded by Ashish Goel and Rajiv Srivatsa. At present, Urban Ladder delivers to 12 cities in India (Bangalore, Mumbai, Delhi/NCR, Chennai, Pune, Hyderabad, Cochin Ahmedabad, Chandigarh, Surat, Kolkata and Mangalore). Last year, it said it aims to hit 25-30 cities by March 2015. Now it has extended the time period to reach this goal. The latest funding comes just nine months after it raised $20 million in Series B round of led by Steadview Capital, with participation from SAIF Partners and Kalaari Capital. In the past, it has raised $5 million in Series A from SAIF and Kalaari and prior to that it got around $1 million from Kalaari. Ratan Tata, chairman emeritus, Tata Group, also made a small personal investment in the company in November 2014. Although the amount was not disclosed, it is believed to be in the region of around $1 million. It competes with the likes of Rocket Internet-incubated FabFurnish and Pepperfry.com, besides other horizontal e-commerce players such as Flipkart.com, Snapdeal.com and Amazon.in. Among the investors, the deal deepens Sequoia s bet on vertical e-com space in India. The VC firm has backed several single vertical e-tailers and has just got an exposure to Snapdeal. The horizontal e-com marketplace has acquired FreeCharge in a deal which gives Sequoia among other VC investors of the mobile recharge company a stake in Snapdeal. TR Capital is a Hong Kong-based mid-market PE firm targeting investments in Asia. This is its second known investment in India. Early this year TR Capital co-invested with TPG and others in eyewear e-tailer Lenskart.