Apple Watch Reviews: You ll Want One, but You Don t Need One: Should you buy an Apple Watch  The first reviews are here. The first reviews of the Apple Watch are in, and the verdict is: This is a good product with a bright future. But maybe don't buy one quite yet. That's not to say the reviews weren't glowing, because they were. Anyone who was hoping that the Watch would flop out of the box and fall short of the high standard that Apple boasts for its products is going to be disappointed. There's also no doubt, from these reviews, that Apple's smartwatch is immediately the best of its kind on the market. "[The] Apple Watch is, above all, a satisfying indulgence," writes Yahoo Tech's David Pogue. "It s a luxury. You might buy it to bring you pleasure   and it will   much the way you might buy a really nice car, some really nice clothes, or a really nice entr e." Overall, reviewers say that the Watch works well, has the battery life it needs and features such as Apple Pay work well. Plus, the Watch just feels nice. But there are criticisms, and strong ones, about how far the product needs to go to appeal to everyone. At the very least, it certainly is -- to quote the headline on The New York Times' Farhad Manjoo review--  a device that comes into its own after a "steep learning curve." The gripes, as always, are the most telling part of the reviews. Manjoo, for example, warns that this is not necessarily a simple device to understand. That's contrary to Apple's normal reputation -- the iPhone, for example, is a great smartphone for technophobes because it's so easy to navigate. But that's not the market that should (or probably would) pick up the first generation of the Watch. Other criticisms range from the fact that the device is a little slow (Nilay Patel, The Verge) to complaints that it's still a little too clunky to be fashionable (Lauren Goode, Re/Code), which could pose a hurdle for wider adoption. Ed Baig at USA Today  says that he also doesn't particularly like making phone calls on it -- though that's not going to stop him from buying one of his own. There are also some greater concerns about smoothly it actually works. Several reviewers said that apps made by companies other than Apple were slow to load and work on the Watch. That will improve over time as software developers get more comfortable with the platform, but is an early hiccup worth noting. It also relies on other Apple software such as the company's Siri voice control software, which Manjoo notes fails to work as often as it's successful. Mashable's Lance Ulanoff says that it's not spectacularly good at working as a fitness tracker, either. That's one of the main draws of the wearable market right now, as products such as Jawbone and Fitbit have shown, and one of the easiest markets for Apple to pick up. The convenience of having a fitness tracker with some phone functions might be enough to win converts, but it seems that, for now, fitness management isn't exactly a killer app for the Watch.