Measuring Social  Trust  to Make Loans: Alternative consumer lenders tend to fit into one of two camps: peer-to-peer marketplaces like Lending Tree and Prosper, and start-ups using data science to parse credit risk, like Affirm, Earnest and Zest Finance.Vouch Financial, which is emerging from its pilot testing phase this week, has an unusual spin on the data science approach. Big data lenders often analyze a person s social network on LinkedIn or Facebook as one signal, among many, for hints about how reliable a payer a loan candidate is likely to be. But Vouch wants you to construct a social network of people who trust you financially   people who will, yes, vouch for you.The Vouch formula looks to back to a bygone era of banking when community bankers routinely asked their customers for  social character  references before granting loans.  We ve taken that principle and digitized it,  said Yee Lee, co-founder and chief executive of Vouch.It also borrows from the concept of co-signing for loans, when a relative or friend is liable for repayment if the borrower turns out to be a deadbeat.Founded in 2013, Vouch made its first loan last October. By now, Mr. Lee said, Vouch has made  hundreds  of loans ranging in size from $500 to $15,000. They are installment loans with repayment typically stretched over 12 to 36 months.Borrowers build online trust networks by sending messages to friends and family members to vouch for them, and typically to commit some amount of money if the borrower does not repay. The people in the network are not asked to co-sign the loan in a traditional sense. But they are asked to explain their relationship to the person and commit an amount of money they will pay if the borrower does not repay. The commitment can be as little as $25 but has been up to $1,000 or more.So joining a person s vouch network is an expression of trust in that person with a dollar amount placed on it. The vouchers sign an electronic agreement to pay, if necessary, that is legally enforceable, Mr. Lee explained.The members of a trust network fill out online surveys, identifying themselves   which is then verified by Vouch   and they agree to have their own credit histories looked up. Several thousand people, Mr. Lee said, have already joined the company s networks of reciprocal trust.  We re ingesting a lot of data,  Mr. Lee said.The company is really just getting started, but the idea is to collect data on trust signals and experience on lending, and build increasingly refined and accurate predictive models. Richard Lewis, Vouch s chief risk officer, said the goal was to bring the concept of community banking reference checks into the digital age.  We want to make it analytic, quantifiable, scalable and fair,  he said. Mr. Lee provided a simplified example of different trust networks and lending decisions: Take two young people, both 22 years old, both living in Westwood, Calif., and both with 620 FICO scores   just into subprime territory by the traditional FICO yardstick of creditworthiness, which relies heavily on a person s credit history. One borrower is a young man and has assembled a 10-person network. It s a sizable number of trust connections, but they all come from the same address, the fraternity house at the university from which the borrower recently graduated. The second loan candidate is a young woman with only three people in her network. But one is her mother who is willing to vouch $1,000, and Mom has an 800 FICO score. And the other two people in her network live in Austin, Tex., and Newark., and have the same last name as the young woman. The 22-year-old young woman, Mr. Lee observed, would get somewhat better terms on her loan, given the strength rather than the breadth of her trust network. The start-up s borrowers range in age from their 20s to 50s, across a demographic spectrum, but the most common loan use so far has been to pay off high-rate credit card debt, Mr. Lee said. Vouch has apparently done a lot of spade work with regulators. It is chartered, Mr. Lee said, in 50 states. To date, it has raised $3.6 million from venture capital firms including IDG Ventures and Greylock Partners.