Twitter shares up on takeover bid rumors, unusual options activity: Is Twitter facing a takeover bid  Some investors hope so. Twitter shares are way up in Tuesday trading, and not because people really like the new design of its tweet-quoting feature.  Rumors are flying after numerous press reports, including one from Barron's citing "chatter" that Twitter is fending off a takeover bid. According to Barron's Tiernan Ray, that "unsubstantiated chatter" has also identified Goldman Sachs as the advising firm Twitter's hired to keep takover offers at bay. Twitter declined to comment. The company's shares closed nearly 4 percent up  to $52.87 per share. The stock opened at $51.01 and went as high as $53.28 on the admittedly sketchy reports. This is not the first time there's been talk of a Twitter takeover. It's been batted about for years, well before Twitter went public, and the idea resurfaced as recently as January that Google might be the suitor in question. Google has again been named as a possible buyer in this latest round of rumors; the company declined to comment on rumor and speculation. Twitter's had some problems growing its audience since going public, which it's addressed by revamping the site's design to make it easier for newcomers to understand. Unusual options activity: Twitter options active on deal chatter: Twitter Inc's (TWTR.N) shares jumped 5 percent and activity in its options surged on Tuesday on unsubstantiated market chatter about the company fending off a takeover bid. The microblogging service provider's shares rose to $53.28, the highest they have been since October, on market chatter that the company has hired advisers to rebuff a takeover bid. Twitter's options were unusually active on Tuesday with total volume more than 250,000 contracts, or twice the average daily volume, according to Trade Alert data. Call options, usually used to place bullish bets on shares, outnumbered puts by a ratio of nearly 3 to 1. The reading is about the highest it has been in favor of calls since the beginning of March.