India startup action #1: Quikr gets $150M funding as it battles global giants for India s classifieds market: Quikr, a classifieds site that s one of India s best-funded startups, today revealed that it has secured a further US$150 million in funding. This is its eighth major round of funding, which now totals nearly US$350 million.  The big things for us going forward are to continue to innovate for India, innovate for mobile, and go deeper in key categories where we already are leaders,  said Pranay Chulet, founder and CEO of Quikr, in a statement. The fresh investment will go towards Quikr s push for smartphone users and to help build an upcoming, spin-off real estate portal, reports NextBigWhat. More here: Quikr raises $150M from Tiger Global, Kinnevik & Steadview Capital: Online classifieds site Quikr.com, has raised $150 million (over Rs 900 crore) from existing investors Tiger Global and Sweden s Kinnevik besides a new investor Steadview Capital Management, it said on Tuesday. The venture essentially competes with Naspers-backed OLX in the P2P classifieds business in India. This fresh round of funding will be used to further invest in Quikr s fast growing mobile business and in its key categories such as cars, real estate, jobs and services. Founded in 2008 by Chulet and Jiby Thomas (who quit the firm later), Quikr was originally started as Kijiji India. The firm later rebranded to Quikr. It is a large scale cross-category classifieds business with over 30 million consumers. These consumers come to Quikr to sell, buy, rent or find products and services in a variety of categories such as electronics and household goods, real estate, cars, bikes, jobs and services. The firm claims that small businesses across 1,000 cities are using the site. It recently announced the launch of a new classifieds website for real estate called quikrhomes.com to allow B2C as well as C2C discovery of properties up for sale as well as those available for rent. For new investor Steadview Capital, this marks another large deal in India. Last year the Hong Kong-based alternative assets manager had backed marquee firms in the digital commerce space in India e-com venture Flipkart and online cabs aggregator Ola.