HP Comes to Terms With the Cloud: A year ago, Hewlett-Packard thought it was going to change cloud computing. Now it looks more as if cloud computing is changing HP, just as the company enters one of the greatest attempts at reorganization in the history of technology. Meg Whitman, HP s chief executive, will at the end of October split HP  into two companies. One will be generally focused on business technology and one on consumer-friendly areas of personal computers and printers. HP thought it would compete with Amazon, Google, and Microsoft for business rentals of computing power via so-called public cloud assets. Companies like Netflix, Snapchat and 3M now run significant parts of their businesses in such clouds, and the field is growing rapidly. After looking at the market, however, HP is now ceding the public cloud.  We thought people would rent or buy computing from us,  said Bill Hilf, the head of HP s cloud business.  It turns out that it makes no sense for us to go head-to-head.  HP is still selling servers, but increasingly it looks like its biggest customers will be cloud companies themselves, or other computing behemoths, like Facebook. For thousands of other customers, Ms. Whitman hopes to build smaller cloud systems, while figuring out ways these companies can also use Amazon or Microsoft. One such buyer, the Fox Entertainment Group, uses HP computers to create content, but it looks to Microsoft to run its email or handle heavy workloads of noncritical information It uses a cloud run by Salesforce.com for sales management, and others to share things like the latest film both with artists inside Fox and with outside special effects and marketing companies. HP has some business in selling equipment, and more in the related businesses of management and security software, among other things, to hold the disparate parts together.  We have to balance decisions about the content we re creating that we have to control, with security, financial and work-flow decisions,  said John Herbert, the chief information officer at Fox.  We ve pushed HP to give us a lot of automation and flexibility.  That is a big change after an understandable mistake. HP dominated the sales of computer servers to business, so it probably looked like an easy transition to selling computing in a new way. In fact, the scale of the big public clouds, each with more than one million servers, is hard to learn, and the field is a tough place for newcomers to profit.