Amazon Woos EBay s Once-Loyal Merchants With Sales Growth: EBay Inc. s once-loyal merchants are moving more of their business to Amazon.com Inc., saying they get more for their money by selling merchandise via the Web retailer. Amazon s pool of merchants climbed to more than 2 million in 2014, while the number of sellers on EBay has remained flat at about 25 million in the past two years. Businesses that at first set up online storefronts on EBay say they re surprised how quickly sales surge on Amazon once products appear on both sites. Moving storefronts doesn t come cheap. Amazon charges a premium for its logistics services, which include storage, packaging and ensuring products are shipped in a timely manner. Both companies have complex price formulas that vary by product category. While EBay typically charges about 10 percent of each item s final sale price, Amazon takes 15 percent in most cases, with additional fees for optional storage and packaging. Many sellers say Amazon is worth the extra expense to achieve greater sales volumes and that it s cheaper to let Amazon handle logistics than do it themselves. The number of units sold on Amazon s marketplace doubled in 2014. Amazon -- which also sells goods from its own inventory of products, not just from third-party retailers, such as EBay s marketplace -- attracted 174.9 million unique visitors in the U.S. in February, 46 percent more than EBay, according to ComScore Inc. EBay remains the leading marketplace, measured by the number of of sellers, which has remained steady at 25 million for the past two years, according to Ryan Moore, a spokesman for EBay. He declined to comment on any sales shift, referring instead to Donahoe s previous statements on revenue growth. Amazon, based in Seattle, had more than 2 million merchants at the end of last year, up from more than 1 million at the end of 2013. Still, Amazon s logistical support services and larger customer base make it attractive to sellers with high sales volumes of quick-moving inventory, while EBay remains more favorable to small sellers of collectibles and specialty items. Amazon, which has 270 million active buyers compared with EBay s 155 million, has had a third-party marketplace since 2000 and started offering Fulfillment by Amazon in 2007. Some sellers have been wary of Amazon, since it can also be a retail competitor. The shift highlights the value of Amazon s paid membership model and its investments in distribution. Amazon boasts tens of millions of customers who pay $99 a year for fast delivery, as well as offering online music and movies. Merchants are willing to pay Amazon more to access those shoppers and have Amazon handle and deliver their products.  You can draw a pretty straight line to the success and popularity of Amazon Prime,  said Gil Luria, an analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc.  People who used to shop all over the place are now doing most of their shopping on Amazon.  Three out of four merchants using the Fulfillment by Amazon warehousing, packaging and shipping service reported annual sales growth of 20 percent, according to a recent survey by Amazon. More than 40 percent of all products sold on Amazon comes from third-party merchants who pay Amazon a cut of each sale, said Tom Taylor, Amazon s vice president of seller services. Those sellers are increasingly paying Amazon extra to handle storage and shipping, he said.