The Hackathon Fast Track, From Campus to Silicon Valley: Hackathons have become commonplace among professional developers, especially in booming tech centers like San Francisco and New York, and have emerged as prime places for networking, job recruiting, entrepreneurial pitching and, in many cases, winning cash. (One sponsored by the tech company Salesforce famously offered a $1 million prize to the most innovative project.) Now weekend hackathons organized by and for students are surging in size, scale and frequency.  A few years ago, hackathons weren t really that popular   it was sort of a subculture,  says Kathryn Siegel, a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.  There s been an enormous explosion.  The longest-running collegiate hackathon, founded at the University of Pennsylvania in 2009, has since ballooned to accommodate 1,200 students each semester. Demand, though, is far outpacing growth. At TreeHacks, 2,500 applied for 500 spots. (Capacity was later expanded to 672, which required setting up a heated outdoor tent.) More than 250 participants traveled to Palo Alto, Calif., from some 60 universities, including five Ivy League schools, top-tier engineering programs like Carnegie Mellon, M.I.T. and Georgia Tech, and universities as far away as the United Kingdom and Taiwan. Hackathon-goers maintain that what motivates them is not the awards. Mr. Hashme, who directs the University of Maryland s Bitcamp, has participated in more than 40 hackathons since 2013. He says he attends because they force him to learn new tech skills.  Sitting in your dorm alone and trying to work on something, you wind up doing things you regret later, like watching a movie or browsing the Internet,  he says. At hackathons he enjoys meeting like-minded students from across the country    It s a room full of doers.  Fostering an education-first ethos, collegiate hackathons encourage students to tinker with new software and hardware and challenge themselves, and students teach one another.  There s an expert on nearly anything there,  says Dave Fontenot, a former director of MHacks.  If you ask who the best JavaScript person is, pretty soon you re meeting a GitHub celebrity.  (GitHub, a user-generated online repository for sharing computer code, is like a Wikipedia for software.) At TreeHacks, a team of Apple engineers was on hand to mentor students at all hours of the night. Collegiate hackathons have replicated that scene on a far grander scale. Identifying talented coders who can dream big and thrive under pressure is particularly valuable to Silicon Valley. Since hackathons showcase some of the best, brightest and most motivated upstart programmers, the events have become a focal point for recruiting. Some say hackathons are as fruitful as job fairs.