How does Facebook know who your friends are  It s a mystery that has nagged users since at least 2011, when the Irish Data Protection Commissioner conducted a full-scale investigation into the issue. But four years later, there s still a lot of confusion and misinformation about what Facebook s doing when it  finds  your friends. Did it scrape your phone for names and numbers  Run a reverse-image search of your picture  Compile a  shadow  or  ghost  profile on you over a period of years, just waiting for you to log on and  confirm  its guesses  Alas, Facebook s actual process isn t actually that sneaky or malicious. In fact, it involves this pretty complex academic field called, dun dun   network science. In a nutshell, whenever you sign up for a Facebook account, Facebook asks permission to look at your e-mail contacts if you re on a computer, or your phone contacts if you re on a smartphone. When you grant the site permission, it searches your contacts for users already on the network, and it searches other users  uploaded contacts for you. That gives it a very primitive outline of your social circles: who you know, but not how you know them or how well. To refine that map, Facebook asks you more questions about yourself: where you went to school, when you were born, what city you live in. Each field in your Facebook profile and each interaction you make through that profile actually double as a source of data for Facebook s mapping algorithms. What they re trying to do is determine the structure of the network: where the cliques are, which people bridge them, who knows who. Once Facebook knows the structure of your social network, it can analyze it to predict (with startling accuracy!) not only the people you re most likely to know now, but the people you re most likely to know in the future. This isn t magic: It s actually closer to statistics. In the network, there are a set number of  nodes,  i.e., people, and a set number of  edges,  i.e., friendships. Given that, each nonexistent connection between two nodes is a statistical possibility. But not all nodes are created equal, so not all connections are equally likely. (I don t anticipate befriending many 40-year-old guys in Siberia, say.) To estimate which connections are most likely, Facebook can run analyses against the structure of the network, using a long and entirely above-our-pay-grade list of coefficients and indices. Those coefficients account for a huge number of things: How many unusual commonalities do two people share, for instance  How many friends do they have in common  Which people in the network serve as rallying points, the people who know everyone  How many  degrees of separation  exist between them, how many friends of friends  In the end, Facebook s friend-recommendation system isn t magic or malice   just really good math. And guessing your future friends isn t telling the future; it s modeling the evolution of Facebook s social graph.