Advertising comes to Tinder: This week, Tinder unveiled its first ad in the form of a video promoting Budweiser s next #Whatever, USA campaign. The video ad will show up for Tinder users the next time they open the app, but much like Instagram s foray into advertising, Tinder ensures that rolling out advertising on the platform will go slow. Within a few swipes, users will land on Bud Light s profile with a special auto-playing video, asking users to enter into the next #UpForWhatever contest. #WhateverUSA is a campaign that has already worked once for Bud Light, where the brand builds a random party town for a week of  spontaneous fun  with contest winners and celebrities in attendance. With the new Bud Light ad on Tinder, Users can swipe out of the video immediately, with the same animations for left-swipes (Pass) and right-swipes (Like), which will be recorded by Tinder for the brand.  If you think about the way Tinder works, with  like  and  pass , we have a really amazing signal for advertisers,  said Brian Norgard, VP of Advertising at Tinder.  We re being careful to respect our core experience for our users, which ensures that we can give that data back to our brands in a really valuable way. The response so far has been off the charts. You won t believe how many people will swipe right if the content is high quality.  Tinder is using this first advertising campaign as a way to test the waters, using a number of different video lengths across the course of the campaign.  The product is very early, and we re just starting to learn how our users are reacting to this format,  said Sean Rad, cofounder and president at Tinder.  Based on that we ll make decisions on where we want to take the product or if we even want to proceed. Like everything else we do, we care a lot about the user experience and will protect a good balance between enjoying that uninterrupted Tinder experience with asking you to hear something from a sponsor or advertiser.  Rad and Norgard were both very clear about the fact that things will go slow at first, with Rad telling AdWeek that  it s going to be a long time until [advertisements are] a consistent part of your experience.  They also told me that the engagement has been overwhelming and surprising.  We re investing heavily in relevance, whether it s leveraging the data we have with these signals our users give us, or using that data to do a better job of matching our users,  added Norgard.