The PayPal Mafia s Golden Touch: The ride-hailing app Uber, the apartment rental site Airbnb and other darlings of the next generation of Silicon Valley start-ups are reshaping the way people use the web. They are also changing expectations about just how much money private companies can raise while still staying out of the public markets. Known as the unicorns, these private technology companies are worth $1 billion or more, thanks to an influx of cash from venture capital firms, hedge funds, private equity firms and mutual funds. But alongside the Wall Street money flowing into these companies  coffers, a familiar set of names is operating behind the scenes by advising, investing in and, in some cases, founding the unicorns. The PayPal Mafia   a nickname given a group of alumni of PayPal, the payments company that went public in 2002 and was acquired by eBay   has its hands in many, if not most, of today s most valuable private tech companies. Their enduring influence, more than a decade after they made their first fortunes, speaks to the tightknit social fabric of Silicon Valley s technology industry, and to the trust new entrepreneurs place in those who have succeeded before them. And now, the PayPal group s close ties with the current crop of unicorns   a collection of some of the most valuable technology start-ups ever seen   suggest its influence is undiminished. The shared experience of PayPal alumni makes their advice   and money   particularly valuable to young entrepreneurs. An online payments provider founded in the 1990s, the company succeeded despite going public shortly after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, even as the economy was still reeling from both the attack and the collapse of the dot-com bubble.  PayPal was an extreme experience in survival against all odds, over and over again, with enormous and lasting success,  said Max Levchin, PayPal s co-founder and chief technology officer.  Like veterans of an intense military campaign, we fall back on lessons learned, and relationships established in our early 20s. 