eCommerce Search is Hot: intelligent search startup Tagalys and visual search startup Wazzat among winners of TechInAsia's India startup contest: Ecommerce is booming in India, and this Chennai-based startup has an intelligent search tool for online retail sites. It helps drive revenues with product recommendations and analytics. Co-founder and CEO Antony Kattukaran said Tagalys already has five paying customers and three more have signed up for a trial. Currently bootstrapped, Tagalys charges clients based on usage. Right now, the gang of four at Tagalys is focused on product development.  We are offering Search as a Service. The market for this is as big as US$2 billion to $4 billion, and it s growing,  Kattukaran said. The judges found the idea compelling enough as search is the biggest problem for every ecommerce company or website. But they also had some pointed questions.  Why would ecommerce companies outsource this core problem to somebody else  Why are you better at search compared to ecommerce companies who are your clients   Takeshi Ebihara asked. Kattukaran was confident that the Tagalys technology with its results-based payment model would be a draw for the mid-sized ecommerce segment, which is the startup s target base. While some of the biggest ecommerce sites would invest in their own tools, many others would welcome  search as a service  to keep up with tech. Tydy: A close contender was Tydy from Bangalore. It has developed a new content system tailored for mobile devices. It aims to take the pain out of trying to use Excel or Powerpoint on mobile. It puts together images, video, and text to create and share interactive mobile documents. The five-man Tydy team has already validated the product with over 250 users in India and is poised to scale up globally to serve the mobile generation. Currently in the enterprise space, Tydy charges its clients   small and medium-sized businesses   US$10 per month Wazzat: Next in line was a contender from Hyderabad. Wazzat is a cloud-based and mobile-friendly image recognition and visual search platform.  Our flagship product Wazzat Fashion is adding eyes to fashion ecommerce stores. Consumers can download our partner retailer s app or visit their website to snap or select the photo of an apparel and instantly search for similar clothes. It also automatically learns the consumer s style preferences and offers recommendations,  pitched Mauktik Kulkarni, co-founder of Wazzat Labs. The Wazzat Fashion widget is currently live on US-based retailer Target s website. It is also in pilot stage on a couple of Indian ecommerce stores. It had a top three finish at last year s MIT Global Startup Labs India accelerator program and recently graduated from the Target accelerator program. 