Facebook s Newest App Riff Lets Friends Add Clips To Collaborative Videos: Shoot a video of up to 20 seconds in Riff, and give it a title that instructs others what they should add to it like  Make A Funny Face  or  Birthday Wishes For Johnny  or  Adventures Of Mr. Banana.  Friends will see the video on Riff and get a notification inviting them to contribute, with each clip tacked on at the end. The contributors  friends are then invited to add scenes, too. Facebook s Riff Product Manager Josh Miller says  The potential pool of creative collaborators can grow exponentially from there, so a short video can become an inventive project between circles of friends you can share to Facebook or anywhere on the Internet.  Riff is the latest Facebook Creative Labs project following other experiments in app design like Paper, Slingshot, Mentions, Rooms and Groups. Like those, even if it doesn t gain mass traction, it could teach Facebook what people want, in this case around video. If it does vie for growth, it could boost video creation on Facebook, but will have to compete with fellow collaborative video apps like JumpCam, Vyclone, MixBit, and Snapchat s Our Stories feature. A few rules for Riffing: You can only shoot video in Riff, no uploads. You get a 3-2-1 countdown, and can approve your clip before posting, but there s no multi-shot recording or editing features like those that have become standard on Instagram, Vine and other apps. There s no liking or commenting in Riff. The goal is for people to contribute instead, so Riff is designed to make shooting unpolished, spontaneous video  feel inviting,  says Miller. Viewers can tap to fast-forward through boring clips, very similar to Snapchat Stories. Only friends of a video s creator or collaborators can contribute to a video, making it expand virally through a social graph rather than going worldwide instantly. Your video could end up very public, though, as Riff will feature user video threads on its home page to inspire other users. View counts will help inspire people to reach for fame. When you post a Riff video to Facebook, all the contributors will automatically be tagged. The original creator can moderate their threads, tapping a  three dot  button on their video to delete clips they don t want. Anyone on Riff can report any specific clip as offensive, while Facebook users can report a whole video as containing something awful. While it s available on iOS and Android worldwide today, it s starting with only 15 languages, including English, Spanish, Portuguese, French, Italian, Thai, Vietnamese, Japanese and Polish. Facebook has no plans to directly monetize Riff right now, but more videos uploaded to Facebook make it easier for it to show video ads that earn it money. The question now is whether Riff will see any traction. Facebook s previous Creative Labs projects have largely flopped as consumer products. Riff certainly isn t new. It s basically a simpler clone of JumpCam, does what Everlapse did for photos, and offers a user-curated version of Snapchat s editor-picked Our Stories.