GoDaddy Said to Price I.P.O. Above Expected Range: Nearly four years ago, GoDaddy was an Internet registration company with a history of risqu  advertising. Now, as it prepares for new life on the public stock markets, the company is eager to let everyone know that it does a lot more than register website addresses   and doesn t rely on racy commercials with scantily clad spokeswomen, either. That new vision of GoDaddy appeared to resonate with investors. The company raised $440 million after pricing its initial public offering at $20 a share late Tuesday, above its expected range of $17 to $19 a share, according to a person close to the transaction. At that price, the company has a market value of just more than $3 billion. Under the ownership of the investment firms that bought the company in 2011 for about $2.25 billion   Silver Lake, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and Technology Crossover Ventures   GoDaddy has sought to transcend its long-established roots and promote itself as the guide to the Internet for small business. That is a much bigger vision than the one the company had when it was founded in 1997 by Bob Parsons as a way for customers to register domain names and host websites. Eventually, it became the biggest Internet registrar, thanks in large part to Mr. Parsons s unabashedly attention-seeking advertising, which frequently revolved around spokeswomen like the racecar driver Danica Patrick. Among GoDaddy s most familiar tactics was creating versions of Super Bowl commercials that would never be shown on broadcast television. After the company s new owners took over, the business tried to change its tone along with its business model. The private equity firms brought in Blake Irving, a former chief product officer at Yahoo, to help transform GoDaddy into what it described in its I.P.O. prospectus as  a leading technology provider to small businesses.  Internet site registration remains GoDaddy s biggest source of revenue, accounting for just more than half of its sales last year. According to the prospectus, the company now oversees 59 million domains, or about 21 percent of those worldwide. Website hosting services and tools, a natural complement to the domain business, made up 39 percent of its bookings last year. The company believes it still has room to grow in its main market. A study it commissioned found that more than 50 percent of American small businesses did not have a website as of early 2013. But GoDaddy has also become one of the biggest resellers of Microsoft s Office 365 suite of productivity and email services, with that operation making up about 10 percent of its sales last year. GoDaddy has also expanded abroad, going from one English-language website to an array of offerings in 37 countries and 17 languages. About one-quarter of its revenue now comes from international business. Over all, the company s sales have climbed consistently in the last three years, up to nearly $1.4 billion in 2014. It lost $143.3 million during that period, according to generally accepted accounting principles, though the company points to what it calls adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, which strips out certain accounting charges. Using that measurement, GoDaddy earned $271.5 million.