Founder of mobile buying app Fetch: "Mobile Messaging Conjures A Commerce Platform" This week brought two announcements that reflect a seismic shift in the future of mobile messaging: 600 million users of Facebook Messenger will soon be able to order food, buy products and text directly with businesses; and meanwhile, Magic is raising an astonishing $12 million from Sequoia to allow you to order any on-demand service simply by sending a text message. America is finally discovering what Asia has known for years: mobile messaging is a commerce platform. These developments herald what Chris Messina recently described as a new trend towards  conversational commerce,  in which users will be able to shed the need for countless apps from different companies in favor a simple mobile messaging interface.  Conversational Commerce is about delivering convenience, personalization, and decision support while people are on the go, with only partial attention to spare,  Messina says. Put more simply: we all text more than ever, so why not expand texting s potential to sending payments, buying products, ordering on-demand services, paying bills, and more  Facebook and Sequoia are not alone in making a big bet that Conversational Commerce marks the next stage of texting s evolution. We re in the midst of a veritable messaging gold rush. Earlier this month, Alibaba poured $200 million into SnapChat, which now lets you send money to a friend or buy a product using their newly-launched SnapCash. This follows Alibaba s $215 million investment in Tango last year. Rakuten recently snapped up Viber for $900 million with an eye towards integrating mobile commerce into the messaging app. Other start-ups in the  conversational commerce  space include Scratch and BRANDiD, which provide curated shopping recommendations; and Native, whose personal travel assistant service allows you to book flights and hotels by sending a text. Path Talk was the first messaging app to allow users to message directly with businesses, making restaurant reservations as easy as sending an SMS. The inevitable evolution of messaging apps like Facebook Messenger and SnapChat into commerce platforms will change the way we think about mobile commerce. It won t be long until you ll be texting your food order to DoorDash, paying bills by SMS, or firing off a quick Facebook Message to send flowers to your loved one. Magic may not be able to be deliver on their promise of bringing a tiger to your front door, but it s clear that mobile messaging is about to get a whole lot more powerful.