US R&D spending surges 6.7% Y/Y, with largest gain since 1996; software spend up 10% - both leading indicators of productivity: Corporate spending on research and development rose 6.7 percent in 2014, almost twice the previous year s gain and the biggest advance since 1996, according to Commerce Department data. The pickup was capped by a 14 percent fourth-quarter surge that signals additional increases are on the way. The spending could extend the momentum of an era of growth-inducing innovation that produced smartphones and tablet computers, 3-D printers, cloud software that delivers services via the Internet and hydraulic fracturing that is making the U.S. more energy self-sufficient. Combined with what s still on the drawing board, such initiatives raise the odds productivity will rebound, boosting the standard of living.  CEOs wouldn t be paying all these researchers -- which is where the R&D budget primarily flows to -- unless they thought that there was something really interesting going on,  Jason Cummins, chief U.S. economist and head of research in Washington for hedge fund Brevan Howard Inc.  R&D surges like this sow the portents of better productivity growth three, five, 10 years later.  The U.S. could benefit from such a boost. Employee output per hour has climbed 0.7 percent a year on average since 2011, compared with gains of 2.5 percent from 1990 through 2005, a period encompassing what some economists have called a  productivity miracle.  The pickup in R&D spending last year was paced by well-known names, as 18 companies in the Standard & Poor s 500 Index boosted such investment by 25 percent or more from 2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The list includes drug-makers such as Pfizer Inc., travel-booking firms Priceline Group Inc. and TripAdvisor Inc., and Apple Inc. and Google Inc. Pharmaceutical companies were some of the biggest spenders on R&D in 2012, running up a $48.1 billion tab, according to the latest data from a survey by the National Science Foundation. The information industry -- including publishing, telecommunications and data processing -- shelled out $46.8 billion, while transportation-equipment makers spent about $42.3 billion. The U.S. is a leader in R&D spending in part because some 70 percent of venture capital money is based here, said Subramanian. This is  another good barometer of how innovation-oriented a particular region is,  and shows that America is  hyper-focused  on that investment, even if some of the venture capital money ends up in foreign companies, she said. The benefits of increased spending on R&D also are likely to help spur sluggish wage growth, Ryan Sweet, a senior economist at Moody s Analytics Inc. in West Chester, Pennsylvania, wrote in a March 19 research note. More investment in intellectual property -- which includes software and entertainment in addition to R&D -- should prompt acceleration in incomes in the next couple years, he wrote. Spending on computer software, which is tallied separately from the government s R&D category, also has shown a revival. It increased at a 10.1 percent pace in the fourth quarter, its best gain since 2011.