Questions arise as bankrupt RadioShack seeks to sell trove of customer data. After filing for bankruptcy in early February, RadioShack is currently making its way through the painful process of  figuring out how creditors will be paid back -- auctioning off real estate and trademarks. Also on the list is more than 13 million e-mail addresses and 65 million customer names and physical addresses -- as well as potential information about customers shopping habits. How much that data could be worth to a buyer is still unclear, but the proposed sale is drawing protests from consumer advocates and raising potentially disturbing questions about how data about shoppers is handled. In the Internet Age, people leave a near constant trail of digital bread crumbs about their lives. And it's clear that data has value: The entire online advertising industry is based on collecting it. But what happens if a company that has amassed a huge trove of data on nearly every aspect of a person's life gets sold off for parts  Radio Shack declined to comment about its bankruptcy's process. The company was a pioneer in collecting customer data, said Marc Rotenberg, president of the Electronic Privacy Information Center. "Radio Shack was the first company that routinely asked for phone numbers. The privacy policy was critical to maintain consumer confidence," he said. And in its privacy policy, RadioShack told customers that it wouldn't sell or rent their personally identifiable information to third parties -- which should make this a pretty clear issue, Rotenberg said. But as Bloomberg News noted, a Web site for Hilco Streambank, a company serving as an intermediary for RadioShack in the bankruptcy process, listed the retailer's "customer databases" as among the assets for sale. Hedge fund and RadioShack creditor Standard General won an auction for the company's assets, according to Bloomberg. But the deal must still be approved by a bankruptcy court in Delaware and is facing several challenges. Back in 2000, after the dot-com bubble burst, the FTC sued to stop Toysmart.com from selling off customer data in violation of its privacy policy. In that case, the FTC said that data in question included names, addresses, billing information, shopping preferences and family profiles,  including the names and birth dates of children. The data was eventually destroyed. The FTC has also sent letters about proposed data sales in the bankruptcies of other companies, including Borders, XY Magazine, and ConnectEDU.