At developer conference F8, Facebook Opens Messenger for App Developers, Realtime Comments, New Ad Formats, Analytics for Apps,..: (more here and here) Today marked the first day of F8, Facebook s annual developer conference, and the company announced a ton of stuff Messenger As A Platform: Facebook is opening up Messenger as a platform for developers. That means developers will be able to add in new functionality to Messenger   things like Giphy for on-the-fly GIF searching, goofy voice changers for voice messages, a drawing pad for doodling things up for your friends, etc. Think of it like a mini-app store within Messenger. New Realtime Comments System: Facebook s Comment system (like the one you see in use at the bottom of this post) is pretty solid, but it s been a while since it got much love. Today, it s seeing a bit of an overhaul. New comments will show up in real time, comments will sync between the story page (this one) and the shared story item on our Facebook Page, FB Embeddable Videos: Facebook is making a move on YouTube s turf, now allowing users to embed their Facebook videos on other sites. Will this mean less personal, home-video style content on YouTube  Maybe. Will Facebook start tapping these embedded video streams as yet another place for them to stick an ad  Almost certainly. Spherical Video: In a curious move, Facebook will now support 3D, spherical video in the newsfeed. You can pan around the video with your mouse cursor. While spherical video looks a bit strange on a flat screen, the key here is Facebook s purchase of the Oculus Rift. Parse For Internet Of Things: FB launched Parse for Internet Of Things   a set of SDKs that act as the backend brains for IoT projects. It s compatible with Arduino first, with other platforms on the way. LiveRail: Last year, Facebook bought LiveRail   an ad exchange that fills ad space within apps and sites to the highest bidder. Today, they made two changes: they ll support mobile display ads in addition to video, and will be able to tap into a pool of anonymized Facebook data to determine which ad to show. Analytics For Apps: Facebook knows a lot about the users of their apps. Now they want to help developers figure out who is using their apps. Are most of the people playing your game female  Are they teenagers  Are those teenagers spending money in game, or are most buyers in their early 20s  Facebook s new analytics platform helps you figure that out.