Slack said to be in talks to raise money at more than $2B valuation: Slack, the San Francisco start-up that makes a  workplace collaboration app, is back on the fund-raising trail and is  in talks to  rais e money at a valuation of more than $2 billion, according to  a person familiar with the matter. The talks come just four months after Slack, which is run by the entrepreneur Stewart Butterfield, raised $120 million at a valuation of more than $1 billion. The valuation could change because the talks are still occurring, according to this  person, who requested anonymity because of continuing ties to the company.  But the talks are another reflection of how Silicon Valley start-ups have been raising money at a furious pace, often snagging tens of millions of dollars and more than doubling their value just months after a previous financing round. Uber, the hugely popular ride-hailing app, has raised billions of dollars in little more than two years. Snapchat, a messaging start-up, has raised hundreds of millions in very short order as well. Bloomberg News earlier reported Slack s new fund-raising. Mr. Butterfield declined a request for comment. In a recent interview, Mr. Butterfield acknowledged that Slack has  a lot of money and not a lot to spend on,  though he added the company is planning to increase its spending on marketing. The company employs just over 100 people.  To date, Slack has raised about $180 million from firms such as Google Ventures, Accel Partners and Andreessen Horowitz, among others. Mr. Butterfield has been tossing around the idea of leasing a small storefront in one of San Francisco s prime retail hotspots. A store, which might cost about $15,000 to $20,000 a month, could work as a public help desk for Slack s rising number of users. It would also work to market the brand to new users. Slack was introduced about a year ago by Mr. Butterfield and now serves about half a million workers every day, who use the app as a kind of replacement for email and instant messaging. The company offers a free version of its product and also charges companies a monthly fee of $6.50 or more for each user if they want additional features. Mr. Butterfield recently said Slack wasn t profitable and that its losses totaled  a couple hundred thousand dollars a month.  