Apple Pay s pitch: Simpler is better. But some security experts disagree. When Apple introduced its pay-by-smartphone feature last fall, the company touted the simplicity of the setup. All shoppers needed to do was wave their iPhones in front of a special scanner at the cash register   no need to fumble through pockets and purses for plastic cards or identification. But a sharp rise in reports of fraudulent Apple Pay transactions is raising questions about the security of the first mobile payment system to find a measure of popular success. One payments analyst, Cherian Abraham, estimated that as many as 6 percent of Apple Pay purchases are completed with stolen credit cards, or 60 times the rate of the old-fashioned plastic swipe. The problem is that Apple Pay may be too simple to set up, security analysts said. Fraudsters have been loading stolen cards onto iPhones to buy things at stores. As it turns out, it might have been better if Apple Pay required users to do more to prove their identities when they sign up for the service, these experts said. The balance between security and ease of use has long bedeviled technologists, especially those pushing for a new payment system to replace the plastic cards that are highly vulnerable to thieves. That need has grown more urgent as credit card hacks   such as those that have afflicted Target and Home Depot in recent years   have risen in scope and frequency. Mobile payments offer a potential solution. They are considered much harder to hack than traditional payment systems. And they avoid the swipe   a critical advancement since a lot of credit card numbers are stolen by fake card readers. But consumers, banks and retailers have been slow to embrace the technology, partly because of its complexity. Launched in October, Apple Pay was billed as simple to use, and the universe of stores and banks accepting the service has been growing steadily over the past few months. Apple boasts that Apple Pay is now accepted at hundreds of thousands of store locations. Bank of America said customers added 1.1 million of its credit and debit cards to Apple devices in the first two months of Apple Pay. JPMorgan Chase cited a similar figure. But reports of fraud are now giving retailers and banks some pause.  The issuers were probably so eager to be involved that they kind of forgot best practices and sidestepped some procedures they normally would ve had [in order] to accept Apple Pay,  said Michelle Evans, senior analyst for consumer finance at market research firm Euromonitor.