Google Fiber Plans Experiment With Targeted Ads for Television: In a note to customers who subscribe to Google s Google Fiber Internet and television service in Kansas City, Kan. and Kansas City, Mo., the search giant said it would soon begin a trial of local TV ads that will be aimed at a viewer s locality and viewing habits. A spokeswoman who confirmed the service said Google expected it to roll out in the coming weeks. The move, if it were widely adopted by rival cable companies, could represent a sea change in how television ads are viewed and sold. For starters, it would mean that people in the same city might see different ads while watching the same show. It could also change how ads are sold by giving advertisers more leeway over when ads are shown, to whom and how often   the same kinds of control they have when advertising online. Google s trial   which for now is aimed only at customers in the Kansas City area, who can opt out of having their viewing history used for advertising purposes   will use ads that are targeted by geography and what kinds of shows they view most often.  Fiber TV ads will be digitally delivered in real time and can be matched based on geography, the type of program being shown (like sports or news), or viewing history,  Google said in a online forum for Google Fiber.  If you re a local business in Kansas City, just as with digital ads, you ll only pay for ads that have been shown, and can limit the number of times an ad is shown to a given TV.  Analysts had been expecting Google to start experimenting with targeted television ads from the moment it announced its Google Fiber Internet service, which is about 100 times faster than the standard broadband connection. The company makes about $60 billion in annual revenue based largely on its ability to mine its user information to deliver highly targeted ads. Invidi Technologies, based in Princeton, N.J., makes software inside around 30 million United States cable boxes that can be used to target television ads based on age, gender, income, whether the viewer owns a dog or if their car lease is about to expire. Verizon, Dish, DirecTV and Comcast are all customers.  It is like direct mail for television,  said Michael Kubin, an executive vice president at Invidi.