Fidelity, T. Rowe Price, BlackRock, all giant US money managers, are adding Uber, Airbnb, Pinterest and other private tech investments to mainstream portfolios: Tech Money Sends Funds on the Hunt for Unicorns: The retirement accounts of millions of Americans have long contained shares of stalwart companies like General Electric, Ford and Coca-Cola. Today, they are likely to include riskier private stocks from Silicon Valley start-ups like Uber, Airbnb and Pinterest. Big money managers including Fidelity Investments, T. Rowe Price and BlackRock have all struck deals worth billions of dollars to acquire shares of these private companies that are then pooled into mutual funds that go into the 401(k) s and individual retirement accounts of many Americans. With private tech companies growing faster than companies on the stock market, the money managers are aiming to get a piece of the action. Fidelity s Contrafund includes $204 million in Pinterest shares, $162 million in Uber shares, and $24 million in Airbnb shares. Over all, there were 29 deals last year in which a mutual fund bought into a private company, and they were worth a collective $4.7 billion, according to CB Insights. That was up from six such deals, worth a combined $296 million, in 2012. T. Rowe Price was the most active big investor, making 17 investments in private tech companies. Because these tech companies are not required to issue financial reports and are not traded on traditional exchanges, they are the sort of speculative investments not normally found in retirement accounts. Increasingly, however, investors are betting that these companies will be bought or go public at prices that exceed their latest funding rounds, a prospect that is anything but guaranteed.  I think it goes beyond what mutual funds were set up to do,  said Leonard Rosenthal, a professor of finance at Bentley University in Waltham, Mass.  It s great for the portfolio manager, but it s not necessarily in the interest of the shareholders of the fund. If investors are looking for a portfolio of risky securities, there are plenty of stocks to trade in the public market.  The dilemma for big fund managers is that fast-growing technology companies are so reluctant to sell private stock to the public that there is now a term    unicorns,  reflecting just how wonderful and magical they are considered to be   for the dozens of private firms worth $1 billion or more. Several, including the ride-hailing company Uber, the room rental site Airbnb and the digital scrapbook Pinterest are worth more than $10 billion. Those lofty valuations, combined with the eagerness investors show in bidding them up, have created a shadowy market for private stock issued to tech companies  early investors and employees. For the last few years, mutual funds have sat on the sidelines. Now, they are racing to get in.  More and more, the big lopsided growth is happening away from the public markets,  said Andrew Boyd, head of global capital equity markets at Fidelity. Take Uber, which was valued around $40 billion in its latest round of financing, up from $3.5 billion in mid-2013. That is more than 1,000 percent growth, compared with 28 percent for the Standard & Poor s 500-stock index over the same time period.