Touted by some as the next Facebook, Meerkat is living the dream of every app creator. Three weeks after launching, it is enjoying viral growth. It s been the talk of SXSW. Presidential candidates and celebrities are using it. It s been called the new technology that will affect the 2016 presidential election. Prominent investors want to help fund it. 1. Its numbers are multiplying. Meerkat told me Thursday that its user base is growing 30 to 40 percent a day since SXSW started March 13. It signed up 120,000 users in its first two weeks, so should be closing in on the one million user mark. (Thirty-five percent daily growth compounded over a week would put it just short of one million) 2. Its founder is a genuinely likable guy. In a recent interview with Re/code, chief executive Ben Rubin corrected an interviewer who credited him as  the man behind the app Meerkat,  saying  We re the team behind the app Meerkat.  3. Meerkat is obsessed with making its user comfortable. If you talk with anyone on the Meerkat team, they ll almost certainly use the word  comfortable.  It s a value that s guided their decisions, including embracing the trend toward vertical video on smartphones.  We wanted to lower the barrier to entry and make the behavior as comfortable and as familiar as possible given that the medium is still pretty unfamiliar to a lot of people within the context of social media,  community director Ryan Cooley told me at SXSW. Rubin made a really interesting parallel between smartphone live-streaming and the first photographs, during a recent interview with host Ryan Hoover on Product Hunt Radio.  When the first cameras arrived, people weren t smiling. It was weird to smile in a picture. People don t have that habit of taking a picture or being in a picture. It evolved,  Rubin said.  With live video, we don t have this habit. My mother didn t live stream, I didn t live stream when I was a kid.  The challenge for Meerkat is to make everyone   especially people who aren t early adopters  comfortable with live streaming. Because Meerkat videos aren t stored and can t be rewatched later, it s a less intimidating experience. You don t have to worry about slipping up, and having that mistake be re-lived forever. You simply hit a button on your phone, and suddenly people are digitally right there with you. 