...A big name tech investor makes big bets on startup-to-startup APIs: The best way to do business isn t to build it all in-house. Top companies are increasingly piecing together a composite of APIs from specialized startups. That lets them concentrate on their unique value-add rather than reinventing the wheel. Now those building blocks are turning into big businesses of their own with unique challenges. How do they get traction for their APIs  What does it take to support a developer ecosystem  How much should they charge  Accel Partners thinks it can help. It s learned from investments in Braintree, Segment.io, Slack, and Checkr. But Accel also knows it missed the boat on Twilio and Heroku. So to attract more API businesses and share its insights, Accel is announcing a new investment focus in what it calls  APX,  the API-ification of business. Developers are constantly posed with the question of whether to buy or build. You either pay for a specialized API or you spend the resources trying to replicate them. But as the cogs get more complex, and the talent wars rage on, in-house development keeps looking slower and more expensive.  You don t need to go out and source the talent to build these functions,  Natarjan tells me.  You can outsource entire swatches of your company to very reliable APIs. It s a bit of a talent arbitrage game.  Wong followed up, asking  Why would you go start your own payments capabilities, your own payment analytics, your own map capabilities when they re so easily accessible from these other companies and are arguably better   Take background checks, for example. On-demand and sharing economy startups like Instacart or Homejoy need to know the contractors they send to customers  houses aren t going to rob them. Normally, these companies would have to hire a team to compare potential hires  identities against watch lists and criminal records. But their businesses are about grocery delivery and home cleaning, not background checks, so building a team or system to handle them would be a distraction.  With Checkr, that whole function has been reduced to an API,  Natarjan says. Instead of recreating something done better elsewhere,  You can dedicate 100% of your efforts to the 1% that is going to differentiate a product.   APX is the current picks and shovels,  Accel Partner Rich Wong tells me, alluding to the success of merchants who sold mining tools during the gold rush.