Non-compete agreements drive away talent, Silicon Valley thrives in their absence:  In Silicon Valley,  Not only are formal alliances commonplace among the local firms, it is also, arguably, one of the most dynamic labour markets in the world. Here, the culture is one of loyalty to the profession rather than to a firm. Equally, there is nowhere else on the globe that can compete with the number of start-ups which successfully launch and, more importantly, stay in business and go on to be global leaders in the industry.  But what drives this collaborative environment  Silicon Valley s vibrancy can t all be pinned down to one factor. However, one critical characteristic of Californian is that firms simply cannot enforce non-compete agreements on their employees   as the state doesn t recognise them legally. There  is clear evidence that talented workers feel a pull towards states where they can change employers freely and take their creativity with them.  In today s collaborative business environment, this raises some questions about whether non-competes really are the best tool for protecting intellectual property and recouping technological investments even from the perspective of the companies involved.  It is important to recognise that these are a double-edged sword.  Preventing employees from going to work for a competitor could not only hurt your competitor, but it could be hurting your own business too if one looks at the bigger picture.  Because finding the right match between an employee and employer is a little like the dating game   some are matches are made in heaven, some are not   and it is beneficial to be able to break the relationship as easily as possible, should the need arise. If, however, your own employees and your competitor s employees are unable to find the right match for fear of breaking a contract, the only outcome is a zero-sum game.  In this situation, the degree of experimentation between employees and firms becomes that much harder, leading to an inefficient labour market. As well as being detrimental at firm level, the consequences are felt across the industry and region. 