Cash burns fast for Uber-like startups that grow city by city - "You have an operations team that is on a city-by-city basis, but you make sure your engineering team is not city-by-city" : The list of city-by-city startups includes mobile car-booking companies Uber Technologies and Lyft, food delivery startup Munchery, parking provider SpotHero, shopping service Instacart and laundry startup Washio. While they rely on technology to deliver new products and services, their business models are a departure from the low-cost ventures built by a few programmers working in a cramped office. Instead, they're setting up kitchens, renting warehouses and hiring local staff. Among the startups that raised a third financing round in 2013 or 2014, 14 are expanding from city to city and have attracted an average of $65 million in funding, more than double the amount raised by the rest, according to PitchBook Data, a financial information provider. Uber is leading the pack, with a presence in almost 300 cities in 55 countries. Valued at $40 billion, the mobile car-hailing startup is on a hiring spree for operations staff, with more than 200 job postings for staff outside of the company's headquarters in San Francisco, from Miami to Moscow. CEO Travis Kalanick's steady ramp-up has required Uber to raise an enormous amount of cash totaling more than $5 billion. In January, Bloomberg News reported the car-booking startup raised $1.6 billion in convertible debt, and that it was still on the lookout to collect more financing. Some investors warn that cash-intensive startups are at risk of flopping, pointing to previous attempts by delivery companies Kozmo.com and Webvan, which also sought to expand city to city in the late 1990s, only to crash when the dot-com bubble burst in the new millennium. Marc Andreessen, Silicon Valley investor and startup veteran, cautioned last year that enterprises rapidly burning cash may be unable to survive in an adverse environment.1 Apoorva Mehta, Instacart's CEO, is betting his delivery startup will be nimble enough to avert a crunch. The San Francisco-based company, which raised $220 million at a $2 billion valuation in January, initially sold groceries to customers with a markup. Now, Instacart is more focused on cutting deals with food stores to deliver produce and other goods for a fee. Instacart needs less cash to expand (compared with Amazon, which also delivers groceries in some urban areas) since it doesn't have to build warehouses or large stores. "You have an operations team that is on a city-by-city basis, but you make sure your engineering team is not city-by-city," Mehta said.