F.C.C. Sets Net Neutrality Rules: The Federal Communications Commission on Thursday released extensive details of how it would regulate broadband Internet providers as a public utility, producing official wording that almost certainly sets the stage for extended legal fights. The release of the rules had been eagerly anticipated by advocates and lawmakers, as well as broadband and technology companies, since the agency approved new rules for Internet service two weeks ago. The details came in a 313-page document that included the new rules and the legal justifications for them. The rules revealed how the strict laws would be modified for Internet providers, exempting the companies from the sort of price controls typically applied to utilities, for example. But the full text of the new order also raised uncertainties about broad and subjective regulation. One catchall provision, requiring  just and reasonable  conduct, allows the F.C.C. to decide what is acceptable on a case-by-case basis. Opponents of the rules, including many of the leading Internet providers, spent Thursday poring over the document. It was not known who would file the first legal challenges, or exactly what legal arguments would be made. Many experts, though, said the document included plenty of opportunity for different interpretations. The  just and reasonable  provision, said Roger Entner, the lead analyst at Recon Analytics in Boston,  can be stretched like chewing gum.  He suggested that it would inspire a flood of proactive, permission-seeking petitions from businesses large and small. He pointed to mobile-messaging companies like Snapchat or WhatsApp that may be transmitting voice or video and seeking money from investors who want legal assurances before signing checks.  Before acting, you need to know: Is this kosher with the F.C.C.   The debate about how to preserve the open Internet has persisted for more than a decade, and the F.C.C. s new rules are not its first attempt to protect it. But the issue picked up momentum in the last year, with President Obama taking the unusual action of publicly urging the independent agency to approve strong regulation. The agency s order reclassifies high-speed Internet as a telecommunications service rather than an information one, subjecting providers to regulation under Title II of the Communications Act. Its aim is to protect the open Internet, advancing principles of so-called net neutrality by prohibiting broadband providers from elevating one kind of content over another.  Threats to Internet openness remain today,  the agency wrote in the document released on Thursday.  The record reflects that broadband providers hold all the tools necessary to deceive consumers, degrade content or disfavor the content that they don t like.  Comcast and Verizon, two leading Internet service providers, declined to comment. Jim Cicconi, AT&T s senior executive vice president for external and legislative affairs, called the order s publication the beginning of  a period of uncertainty  that the company was confident would be resolved  by bipartisan action by Congress or a future F.C.C., or by the courts. 