Educational toy maker LeapFrog, once unique, is battered by the app disruption: Battered by a growing variety of cheaper alternatives, LeapFrog, a dominant maker of educational toys and games, has watched its sales plummet. It has become the target of short-sellers, investors who bet on a company s failures, and was most recently sued by shareholders who claimed it had drastically overestimated consumer demand for its products.  As each year passes by and more apps are for free and they re lower priced, it becomes a tougher sell,  said Jim Silver, the editor in chief of TTPM, a toy review website. Slow to adapt, critics say, LeapFrog has become something of a modern-day fable for how quickly technology has unseated the toy industry s titans. Mike Wood, a lawyer, created the company upon realizing how few educational products existed for his 3-year-old son, who was having trouble learning to read. He founded the company in 1995, and in 1999 introduced the first LeapPad, an electronic book with audio and pen that helped children learn to read. As technology evolved, LeapFrog seized the opportunity to create a tablet just for children: no web-browsing abilities and a limited set of games. It introduced the original LeapPad tablet in 2011 for $100 at a time when the average tablet in the United States sold for about $470, according to data from Euromonitor. Sales skyrocketed. Sean McGowan, an analyst with Needham and Company, estimates that the company sold 1.2 million tablets the first year, and more than doubled that in 2012, when the LeapPad 2 came out. The hardware, combined with its software and content, most likely made up more than half of the company s revenue, Mr. McGowan said.  Back then, not every family had an adult tablet they were willing to give to their child,  said Gerrick Johnson, an analyst with BMO Capital Markets. Just a few years later, however, the idea of a tablet that appeals precisely because it can do a limited set of tasks seems almost quaint. Older generations of iPads have become hand-me-downs from parents to children, while tablets get cheaper every year. Parents can program their grown-up devices with educational games, instead of buying a separate specialized system. Sales of various LeapPads to retailers began to plateau in 2013, according to Mr. McGowan, who estimates that they dropped more than 40 percent in 2014. On a weekday afternoon, Flora Bojadziev, a chef from Harlem, browsed through a Toys  R  Us in Manhattan. She was looking for educational toys for her 2  -year-old son, who plays with her iPad. But she balked at the idea of spending $130 on LeapFrog s LeapPad Ultra XDi, an educational tablet for children, on sale in the aisle a few steps away.  With that money, I ll buy him so many apps,  said Ms. Bojadziev, who is 33. That is precisely the problem for LeapFrog, which built a multimillion-dollar company on children s devices before babies learned to swipe the screens of iPads.