Online retail had a bumper year ($326.6 billion), key to 2015 success: Payments, CustomerFirst, Data:Overall, the retail industry posted solid growth last year and e-commerce really knocked it out of the park. Total retail sales reached approximately $4.12 trillion in 2014 and online retail made up about 7.9% of that ($326.6 billion). Compared to 2013, 2014  nonstore retailers  sales, which includes e-commerce, grew by 7.7%. The last quarter of 2014 was strong for e-commerce, as online sales increased by 2.3% between Q3 and Q4. After being adjusted for seasonal variance, the US Department of Commerce estimates that online retailers sold $79.6 billion worth of goods. This made up 6.7% of total retail sales, which reached $1.2 trillion. Tips for this year: Increase Payment Options: About 54% of shoppers like having the option to use payment methods beyond credit and debit. This often boils down to security concerns. Consider offering alternative payment options, such as PayPal, to give customers choices and make them feel safer. Put the Customer First: Approximately 83% of consumers require some sort of customer support while making an online purchase and if you can deliver, you ll reap the benefits. Roughly 86% of consumers said they d pay more for a good customer experience, and that is possible through live chat. Be clear on what shoppers are looking for, provide helpful recommendations, and answer questions in real time. Use Data Effectively: There are different kinds of data, and even more ways to use them. Even though it can be overwhelming, it is crucial for e-commerce success. It can allow retailers to provide a more personalized experience and target shoppers better when they abandon their cart. Know what they ve added to their carts and use those items to remind them to come back. Provide great recommendations based on what they ve previously ordered to create loyal customers. Data can even give retailers a better idea of what price is best on products based on the competitive landscape, demand, and more.