Facebook Finally Lets Its Firehose Be Tapped For Marketing Insights: Twitter s firehose of tweets has long been offered as a goldmine for businesses trying to understand how to improve or market their products, and now Facebook will allow privacy-safe peeks at its treasure trove, too. Today Facebook launched a new insights product called  Topic Data  in the U.S. and U.K. with the help of brand analytics leader DataSift. Facebook explains that  Topic data shows marketers what audiences are saying on Facebook about events, brands, subjects and activities.  For example,  A business selling a hair de-frizzing product can see demographics on the people talking about humidity s effects on their hair.  On days when everyone s posting status updates about how frizzy their hair is, a brand could step up its ad spend knowing it s the perfect time to reach potential customers. Sentiment, location, volume of mentions and words often mentioned alongside a brand can be pulled, too. Because much of Facebook s data is private, unlike Twitter, offering Topic Data in a privacy-safe way is a top concern and might explain why Facebook waited so long to offer this functionality that brands have been begging for. To ensure personal info isn t divulged, Topic Data is aggregated and anonymized, so brands can t know or piece together exactly who said what. Queries that might pull up personally identifiable data like home addresses will be banned. At least 100 different users have to match a query for it to be allowed. Still, the idea that their private status messages to friends will fuel better ad targeting may irk some Facebook users. There s no opt-out, and the only way to keep data totally private is to either set posts to be visible to  only me  or not post at all. To be clear, this isn t a brand monitoring tool. It s not designed to let companies see every mention of their business and try to respond. That wouldn t work since data is anonymized any way. Brands issue the forward-looking queries through a third-party analytics provider that submits them to DataSift, which can run them against Facebook s data. DataSift hands the analytics tool back anonymized statistical data about posts that match the query since it was issued that can be formed into charts and insights, or bundled with social analytics from other networks. More examples Facebook gives for how to use Topic Data include:  A fashion retailer could see the clothing items its target audience is talking about to decide which products to stock.   A brand can see how people are talking about their brand or industry to measure brand sentiment.  When Twitter opened its firehose to this kind of analysis a few years back, it spawned an entire ecosystem of data interpreters, including Adobe Social, Brandwatch, Crimson Hexagon, Socialmetrix and DataSift itself, which was one of only a few companies allowed to sell the full Twitter firehose at one point. Facebook will authorize a limited, undisclosed list of tools it s already working with to access its firehose through DataSift.