Apple unveils the Apple Watch and makes a play for the truly affluent with a watch   priced as high as $17,000: Pricing: the device would start at $350 and, depending on the band and finish you chose, go into the thousands of dollars. Battery Life: While rumors had suggested that Apple was having trouble getting the battery lifespan up to something reasonable, Apple now claims that its watch should be able to handle at least 18 hours of regular use. That ll vary depending on how you use it, of course   but Apple is content enough with the lifespan to call it an  All-day battery .Hardware: the Apple Watch comes close to being beautiful, and it is certainly one of the best-looking computers you can buy for your wrist. Yet it s hard to forget that it is a computer for your wrist. Even in its top-end versions, it lacks the understated elegance of old-fashioned high-end analog watches. Interface: Last fall, Apple made a big show of the rotating crown on the side of the device, the company s take on what most of us call a watch dial. The company held up the crown as its next great interface, something on the order of the mouse, the iPod s clickwheel or the touch screen on the iPhone. I was surprised, therefore, to discover how small a role the crown plays in typical use of the watch. It has two primary uses: When you press it, you get to the watch s main screen of apps   or, if you re already on that screen, the watch switches to displaying the clock. In other words, the crown works as a home button. Uses: Apple spent a long while going through most of the watch s major functions, including its use as a fitness tracker, texting app, email reader and payment device for locations that accept Apple Pay. I boiled down the list to this rule of thumb: Just about anything you can do with your phone, you can do with your watch, faster. But because the watch needs the phone for connectivity, it s hardly liberating you from that device. It s just giving you less of a reason to look at it. Collections: The Apple Watch is unique among Apple s product offerings in terms of just how much variety it offers in terms of buyer options. To help clarify and define the available choices, the company has separated Apple Watch models into three distinct collections: The Apple Watch Sport, the Apple Watch, and the Apple Watch Edition. All three offer both 38mm and 42mm rectangular case sizing options, but materials and finishes vary by collection, as do the band options offered by default. 