India is becoming the land of the errand app: A growing number of startups cater to people who want to avoid the poor roads and polluted air, and can afford to do so because of the plentiful cheap labor. Almost anyone can use an app to have someone pick up groceries, drop off a letter at the post office or prepare a lunch that runs 75 rupees ($1.20) with delivery.  People today want to do as much as possible with their phones,  said TinyOwl co-founder Mandad, who graduated from Mumbai s Indian Institute of Technology in 2012.  It is a friction just to go out -- there s the heavy traffic, pollution and waiting involved for a cab.  The startups are carving out niches by serving certain neighborhoods or parts of cities, realizing the  hyper-local  strategy long envisioned in more developed countries including the U.S. Larger e-commerce companies such as Flipkart and Snapdeal dominate online sales of more traditional goods, including books, apparel and electronic goods. Need your bike serviced, your dry-cleaning picked up or even your own errand boy for a few hours  There are services for all that. There are also at least a dozen startups focused on food and grocery delivery, with angel investors and venture capital firms lining up to invest. With traffic snarls in big Indian cities an everyday occurrence, it s common to find vehicles crawling along at less than 5 kilometers per hour on some Delhi roads, almost as slow as bullock carts, government data shows. Air quality is poor, with several cities faring worse than even Beijing. All that has translated to fewer visitors in stores. People can get everything from apparel to groceries at the click of a button, said consultant Ashok Deenadayalu, who advises retailers on strategy and store management.  Earlier it used to be a pastime to go to the malls on a weekend,  Deenadayalu, who s had a 24-year career at some of the nation s largest chains such as Reliance Retail, Bharti Wal Mart Pvt. and Metro AG.  Now it s just a torture. 