Flipkart of India, to Bolster Its Tech Credentials, Hires Former Google Executive: Despite having raised billions of dollars and attaining a valuation of over $10 billion, the Indian e-commerce giant Flipkart isn t necessarily the biggest name in Silicon Valley. Yet with its latest hire, the company is hoping to signal that it too can be a player. Flipkart plans to announce on Wednesday that it has hired Punit Soni, a former Google executive who most recently was a senior vice president for product management at Motorola Mobility when it was owned by Google. By tapping Mr. Soni to oversee Flipkart s current and future products   and, in particular, their design and who is hired to design them   the e-commerce company means to show that it wants to attract top-level employees.  This really raises the bar for hiring talent,  Mukesh Bansal, the head of Flipkart s commerce platform, said in a telephone interview. As the tech industry takes note of the rise of giants like the Alibaba Group of China, Flipkart s executives are eager to show that India and its booming Internet sector are worth watching as well. Flipkart has become something like an Alibaba for the subcontinent, with Mr. Bansal saying that his company controls almost half of the country s online shopping market. Yet when Mr. Soni announced his departure from Google last fall, around the time that it sold Motorola Mobility to Lenovo of China, he said in an interview that Flipkart wasn t even on his radar screen. At Motorola Mobility, he had served as a public face for the phone maker, especially in terms of discussing its products and plans with the public on the Google+ social network. But he was on the Indian company s radar, ever since the two collaborated on bringing Motorola phones onto Flipkart s sales platforms. Initially, he didn t take the approach by Flipkart seriously. But when he traveled to India to observe the company s operations firsthand, he said, his eyes opened. He went to one of the market operator s warehouses and trucking systems, watching fellow Indians working jobs that they never could have had before.  I could see how the spread of an organized e-commerce system was actually changing people s lives,  Mr. Soni said.  It was probably that evening that I realized this was not just a run-of-the-mill job.  After spending time at Flipkart, he also was surprised to see what he called a strong engineering culture at the company. But he also plans to try and infuse his new employer with more of the values   and employees   of Silicon Valley.