Consolidation in the colocation business: NTT buys German data center operator, while Rackspace seeks tie-ups with Amazon, Microsoft: NTT: Japan's NTT Communications Corp said on Tuesday it has agreed to buy German data center firm e-shelter, becoming Europe's third biggest operator in the sector, in the latest in a series of overseas acquisitions to counter sluggish growth at home. NTT Communications, an unlisted division of Japanese telecom firm Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp (NTT) (9432.T) didn't disclose the deal's financial terms. A person familiar with the matter told Reuters earlier this month the NTT unit was in talks to buy e-shelter for about 100 billion yen ($832 million). In a joint statement, NTT Communications and e-shelter said the Japanese firm will acquire 86.7 percent of the German company, founded in 2000. Operating data centers in four major cities in Germany including Berlin, as well as in Zurich and Vienna, e-shelter is Germany's biggest provider of data center services, they said. The European deal stretches the NTT brand further across the globe. In 2010, parent NTT bought South Africa's Dimension Data for 382 billion yen, while in 2013 NTT Communications signed deals with a combined value of 85.5 billion yen to take over two U.S. cloud computing firms, Virtela Technology Services and RagingWire Data Centers. Rackspace Rackspace Hosting Inc. is open to forging partnerships with large cloud-computing operators such as Amazon.com Inc. and Microsoft Corp. as the company seeks to bolster slowing revenue growth. Rackspace, which has faced price cuts by Amazon, Microsoft and other competitors, decided in September to reject approaches by multiple groups interested in a partnership or acquisition. Since then, Rhodes hinted that the company has had a team looking at supporting customers who are renting computing services from other providers. Rhodes confirmed on Monday that Rackspace intends to provide third-party support for users of rival cloud-computing services via a combination of people and custom-management software.  There are future versions of our model that will be more capital light and more service oriented,  Rhodes said.