Dating app Tinder launches slew of product features, dynamic pricing: Tinder s  Rewind  functionality just went live, finally giving users the ability to go back in time and swipe right instead of left. The  Rewind  feature is included in the premium tier of the service, Tinder Plus, which was unveiled today and costs anywhere between $9.99 and $19.99 in the United States, depending on the age of the user. That s right. Tinder Plus costs $19.99 for users older than 30, while it costs just $9.99 for folks who are younger than 30. However, in the TechCrunch office we ve seen Tinder Plus offered at the price of $14.99/month for a 30+ female user. We ve reached out to Tinder to get a clearer picture of the Tinder Plus pricing structure and will update as soon as we know more. For now, however, we do know that pricing not only ranges based on age but by location. Users in emerging countries (Tinder is currently available in 140 countries across the globe) will pay as little as $2.99/month, while users older than 28 in developed markets like the UK will be paying approximately $23/month (and nearly 4x as much as their over 28-year-old counterparts). Tinder has been testing pricing in various markets for the past few months, but even without the complete information, it s easy to get an idea of the general landscape here. Older users, who theoretically have less supply and offer less demand, should pay a greater amount for extra dating tools. Plus, they likely make more money than younger users. It s Uber s Surge pricing model applied to romantic endeavors. Tinder Plus also includes Passport, which allows users to search for matches anywhere in the world through the drop of a pin, as opposed to being locked into your current location. Tinder Plus also allows users to buy themselves out of advertisements, though Tinder has yet to launch any ad products just yet. Sources say that the ad product will launch later this month, but it s unclear what exactly those ads will look like. As for the features launching today, they make a lot of sense given the current user behavior on Tinder. Rewind, in particular, appeals to just about anyone who has swiped left when they meant to swipe right. The company has seen over 6 billion matches in total, though it s hard to say how many of those matches become anything. That s not necessarily a bad thing for Tinder. The point is that it has become an addiction, with people mindlessly flipping through potential suitors and swiping based on a gut reaction.