India s Mobile Carriers Head Into $14 Billion Fight for Survival: What happens when a wireless operator with millions of customers loses the airwaves it needs to provide service  We may soon find out thanks to an unusual government auction taking place in India. The government will open the bidding Wednesday for airwaves already in use by the biggest carriers, including Bharti Airtel Ltd. and Vodafone Group Plc. They ll have to compete to keep their licenses in the auction against Mukesh Ambani, who is India s richest man and has signaled his determination by making the largest deposit of the competition. India s approach, which is unlike what happens in the U.S., could mean seismic change for the world s second-largest smartphone market. The airwaves up for auction serve more than 300 million customers and account for almost half of the $19 billion in combined revenue for the four largest operators.  For some of the telcos, renewal of spectrum is a key for survival,  said Nitin Soni, a director at Fitch Ratings in Singapore. Bharti, India s biggest carrier, and second-ranked Vodafone could each spend as much as $4.5 billion for the spectrum, Soni said. Ambani s Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. submitted a 45 billion-rupee ($726 million) bank guarantee, the most of any carrier, to participate in the auction, according to data from Mjunction Services Ltd., which is running the sale. Bharti Airtel was second with 43 billion rupees, and Vodafone gave a guarantee of 37 billion rupees. Any company losing previously held airwaves will probably have to shut down business in that region and abandon any investments or infrastructure it s made. Companies also will lose revenue if they can t switch to other bands, a move that would probably require new towers or technology. If companies shut down their business in a particular circle, their subscribers will have to look for new cellular operators, said Rishi Tejpal, an analyst at Gartner Inc. in New Delhi.  For some operators, it s a do-or-die situation,  Tejpal said.  And with Reliance Jio in the picture, nobody knows their strategy. 