U.S. millennials post  abysmal  scores in tech skills test, lag behind foreign peers: The test is called the PIAAC test. It was developed by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, better known as the OECD. The test was meant to assess adult skill levels. It was administered worldwide to people ages 16 to 65. The results came out two years ago and barely caused a ripple. But recently ETS went back and delved into the data to look at how  millennials did as a group. After all, they re the future   and, in America, they're poised to claim the title of largest generation from the baby boomers. U.S. millennials, defined as people 16 to 34 years old, were supposed to be different. They re digital natives. They get it. High achievement is part of their makeup. But the ETS study found signs of trouble, with its authors warning that the nation was at a crossroads:  We can decide to accept the current levels of mediocrity and inequality or we can decide to address the skills challenge head on.  The challenge is that, in literacy, U.S. millennials scored higher than only three countries. In math, Americans ranked last. In technical problem-saving, they were second from the bottom. But surely America s brightest were on top  Nope. U.S. millennials with master s degrees and doctorates did better than their peers in only three countries, Ireland, Poland and Spain. Those in Finland, Sweden and Japan seemed to be on a different planet Top-scoring U.S. millennials   the 90th percentile on the PIAAC test   were at the bottom internationally, ranking higher only than their peers in Spain. The bottom percentile (10th percentile) also lagged behind their peers. And the gap between America s best and worst was greater than the gap in 14 other countries. This, the study authors said, signaled America s high degree of inequality. The study called into question America s educational credentialing system. While few American test-takers lacked a high school degree, the United States didn t perform any better than countries with relatively high rates of failing to finish high school. And our college graduates didn t perform well, either.  Abysmal,  noted ETS researcher Madeline Goodman.  There was just no place where we performed well. 