Google story#2: Google moifies Search algorithm to increase weight of mobile-friendliness, expand indexing of app deep links: Google today announced two notable changes that will affect the rankings of search results for users accessing Google search on mobile devices. It will now take into consideration a site s mobile-friendliness as one of its ranking signals, and information from indexed mobile applications will also begin to influence ranking for signed-in users who have the app installed on their smartphone.  As more people use mobile devices to access the internet, our algorithms have to adapt to these usage patterns,  explains Google in its announcement. The changes follow a number of previous efforts Google has made to improve its search results for mobile users. In 2013, for example, it rolled out ranking changes that would affect sites that were misconfigured for smartphone users, including those frustrating situations where a specific URL would redirect all smartphone users to the website s mobile homepage instead of their preferred destination. This was common among news sites, in particular, as users would often click a link to read a certain story and would end up landing on the site s main webpage, the story nowhere to be found. Last summer, meanwhile, Google began flagging sites that wouldn t display on mobile devices due to the technology they used   like those built with Adobe Flash, which meant they wouldn t display on iOS devices or Android 4.1 and higher. And in November, Google began adding a  mobile-friendly  label to its search results accessed on mobile devices to indicate they would display well on your smartphone s small screen, after first testing  warning labels  earlier in the year. It noted at the time it was also testing the use of the mobile-friendly criteria as a ranking signal. In a blog post detailing the changes, the company points website owners to a number of resources that can help them prepare for this shift, including its guide to mobile-friendly sites, its Mobile-Friendly Testing tool, and its Mobile Usability Report. In addition, the company also said it will begin taking advantage of its efforts with deep-linking technology to begin to surface information from mobile apps higher in its search results. Deep links, for those unfamiliar, point to specific pages within mobile applications themselves. That means developers who implement these links in their apps allow Google to index their apps in a similar way as it does websites today.