IBM announces plans to build corporate cloud centers in India and other new geographies; IBM shrank employee count 12% last year but is hiring in analytics, the cloud and security: IBM Monday announced at a conference in Las Vegas a series of technologies and investments designed to win business customers over to IBM s version of modern computing. IBM also said it was opening corporate cloud centers in Australia, Canada, India and Italy. These follow a company effort to best Amazon Web Services, Google and Microsoft by renting computation in more locations.  Mega clouds are great, but not that great if you re not in their geography,  Mr. Diaz said. Rebalancing workforce: IBM s employee count shrank 12 percent last year as Chief Executive Officer Ginni Rometty has tried to reinvent the 103-year-old technology giant into a more nimble competitor. It s the second straight annual drop for IBM s workforce, the first two-year decline since 1993 and 1994 when the company was pushed to the edge of bankruptcy. Rometty has been seeking to transform International Business Machines Corp. to keep up with newer competitors in an industry undergoing what she s called  unprecedented change.  IBM had 379,592 employees at the end of 2014, down 12 percent from a year earlier when the company posted the first decline in a decade, according to a filing Tuesday. Excluding a 35,000 reduction from divestitures, headcount fell about 3.9 percent last year. To help boost earnings-per-share, Rometty has fired and furloughed workers, cut IBM s tax rate and bought back shares. She has also offloaded less-profitable business units last year, like the low-end server business sold to Lenovo Group Ltd., a customer-care business and the chip-making unit, which IBM paid Globalfoundries Inc. $1.5 billion to take off its hands.  IBM has 15,000 open positions right now, many in areas such as analytics, cloud, security where we are rebalancing skills to meet the evolving needs of our clients,  said Ian Colley, a spokesman for IBM.