Apple wants to start producing cars as soon as 2020, and is hiring accordingly: Apple Inc., which has been working secretly on a car, is pushing its team to begin production of an electric vehicle as early as 2020, people with knowledge of the matter said. The timeframe -- automakers typically spend five to seven years developing a car -- underscores the project s aggressive goals and could set the stage for a battle for customers with Tesla Motors Inc. and General Motors Co. Both automakers are targeting a 2017 release of an electric vehicle that can go more than 200 miles on a single charge and cost less than $40,000.  That s the inflection point -- the proving ground -- that brings on the electric age,  Steve LeVine, author of  The Powerhouse,  a book about the automotive battery industry, said on Bloomberg TV Thursday.  Now you have Apple coming in and this is critical mass. Was GM really going to be able to match Tesla  Apple can.  Apple, which posted record profit of $18 billion during the past quarter, has $178 billion in cash with few avenues to spend it. The Cupertino, California-based company s research and development costs were $6.04 billion in the past year, and Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook is facing increased pressure to return cash to shareholders. The CEO has been pushing the iPhone maker to enter new categories to further envelop users  digital lives with Apple s products and services. Apple s possible foray into cars follows a similar path it s taken to break into other industries. The company wasn t the first to make a digital-music player or smartphone, and only entered those markets once it had a product that redefined those categories. hiring an auto team : A year and a half ago, Apple Inc (AAPL.O) had applied for just eight patents related to auto batteries. Recently, it has hired a bevy of engineers, just one of whom had already filed for 17 in his former career, according to a Thomson Reuters analysis. The recent spate of hires and patent filings reviewed by Reuters shows that Apple is fast building its industrial lithium-ion battery capabilities, adding to evidence the iPhone maker may be developing a car.