Winning the Buy Box is at the top of most Amazon retailers  wish lists; here is a look at how it works; To understand how Amazon views the Buy Box, it s worth putting yourself in the shoes of a shopper to see how they experience the Buy Box. Let s imagine that as a buyer you re searching for a Sony H300 digital camera on Amazon.com and come across the listing below. You go to the product page, and the price is in your range so you click  Add to Basket . You ve just used Amazon s Buy Box. Did you pay attention to who was selling this item  Probably not. You assume it s sold by Amazon. But in this case, it s not. A third-party seller sells it and Amazon fulfills it. As a consumer, you had 31 other third-party options on this product page, including 8 other Fulfillment by Amazon (FBA) offers. Amazon itself wasn t selling this item through its first-party offering. Now that we know how consumers interact with the Buy Box, we have a clearer picture of how Amazon narrows down eligibility. Over at Amazon, a team is working on deciding Amazon s Buy Box algorithm. Their mission is to define what buyers consider to be the  best  offer when shopping on the marketplace. It s truly a customer-centric attitude: Amazon s top priority is to earn buyers  trust, as Amazon believes that this maximizes profits in the long term. Predicting which offer is best for consumers at a product s ASIN level is extremely complex. Amazon can t allow this formula to be transparent for third-party sellers, and Amazon is okay with that. Overall, Amazons goal isn t to increase retailers  trust, but buyers  trust. Since seller performance requirements can vary by category and are subject to change, Amazon does not disclose specific targets needed to win the Buy Box. However, we do know that becoming eligible requires meeting very high standards. To be in with a chance of winning the Buy Box, excelling in the qualifying criteria of pricing, availability, fulfillment and customer experience is the best way to work toward achieving this status. Pricing: Amazon looks at the total price the customer will pay for a product, including delivery, so make sure you price your products competitively, including the delivery rates. The lowest price doesn t guarantee winning the Buy Box, as pricing is just one factor that is evaluated. Availability: Make sure you keep stock available, if you have no current stock for a product, you cannot win the Buy Box! Use inventory planning to keep your popular products in stock and make sure you maintain a consistent quantity threshold. Fulfillment: If you can, offer multiple shipping options on your products. Customer Experience: As a customer-centric company, it is no shock that customer metrics play their part in the Buy Box allocation. Make sure you keep on top of your Order Defect Rate, A-to-z claims, returns and other seller performance and delivery metrics (such as lead-time-to-ship time). Time and experience: In most categories you are not eligible for the Buy Box right away. You need to develop your business on Amazon and build a strong, positive reputation before you can qualify for the Buy Box. Your sales history is an important aspect   both number of sales and customer satisfaction on those sales. Amazon s challenge is not just confirming that buyers prefer offers with low prices, fast delivery and sellers with better feedback. The key is providing each input with a value. To get the Buy Box algorithm right, a lot of testing is needed, with Amazon s team updating and testing new releases, measuring success by monitoring GMV, unit uplifts and the percentage of items bought so that the best products are available to customers on the Buy Box.