HP becomes a reseller of networking equipment; move away from hardware in quest of software-company margins takes aim at Cisco: Hewlett-Packard said on Thursday that it would sell a new line of networking switches that are manufactured by a Taiwanese company and depend on Linux-based, open-source software from another company. HP, once at the center of high-tech manufacturing, will not make the new networking equipment but will act as a reseller, providing both online ordering and worldwide support for the product. It is the most consequential announcement from HP since its chief executive, Meg Whitman, announced last October that the company would split into two separate enterprises. One will be focused on business, and the other on consumer-type products. The networking move, firmly in the area of business technology, shows the type of changes HP and other older tech giants must make to survive in a transforming marketplace. In its last fiscal year, HP took in $2.6 billion from its proprietary networking business, which started in earnest in 2009. In the long term, cheap, open-source networking equipment could threaten HP s existing business, particularly if the open-source products make expected gains in power and capability. HP is not the only networking equipment maker threatened by the changing marketplace. Cisco Systems is still by far the biggest maker of networking gear, with $47 billion in annual revenue, and it depends heavily on proprietary products. Networking gear has been considered an important part of HP s future, however.  We see a shift,  said Mark Carroll, the chief technology officer of HP s networking business.  The traditional market, the one-vendor market, is transitioning to many suppliers.  By offering an open-source product consisting largely of mass-market chips, the thinking runs, HP will be in a position to dislodge Cisco. Mr. Carroll called HP s embrace of open source  an evolution  of his company s strategy.  You look at which markets are growing and go there,  he said. Sold complex and proprietary combinations of servers, data storage, networking and software for decades, customers are now demanding systems that can be arranged in different ways, with open-source software they can tinker with in-house. The new methods promise advantages in speed, cost and innovation. In addition, new entrants are affecting the business. Companies now rely on Amazon s computing-rental business for many needs. Facebook last week announced an open-source switch intended to undermine prices and speed innovation in the industry. Mr. Carroll said HP  absolutely  sees Facebook s switch  playing in the same space  as HP s open-source networking. The actual manufacturer of the HP boxes, Accton Technology, has been making gear for HP for 20 years. The open-source software will be supplied by Cumulus Networks, which last year announced it would supply Dell with software for inexpensive networking boxes. The Cumulus relationship with HP is not exclusive, and HP could add more suppliers in the future. HP  wants the software and service margins and to get rid of being in the hardware business,  said JR Rivers, chief executive and one of the founders of Cumulus.  You ll see other networking providers get on board with this.  The initial target customers for the product, available in March, are telecommunications and financial companies. Both use a lot of cloud computing, mobility, social media and big-data resources in their data centers.