Snapdeal aims for $2B in fashion in 2015; acquires designer apparel e-tailer Exclusively.com: E-commerce major Snapdeal.com, run by Delhi-based Jasper Infotech Pvt Ltd, has acquired Indian luxury and lifestyle products site Exclusively.com (formerly Exclusively.in). The financials of the deal are not disclosed. According to Snapdeal, the acquisition has been made with an aim to strengthen its fashion business and reach $2 billion in gross merchandise volume (GMV) in the category in 2015.  We have witnessed a surge in the demand from consumers across the country for premium and luxury products. However, given that access to luxury brands is limited in our country, we have acquired Exclusively to provide our users with access to a range of aspirational, high end products and services,  said Kunal Bahl, co-founder and CEO, Snapdeal.com. As part of the acquisition, Exclusively will complement Snapdeal s existing ecosystem and will provide a consolidated offering for the luxury and lifestyle shopper. It will continue to function as an independent site and all aspects of Exclusively s online shopping experience will remain intact   with new collection and service augmentations in the pipeline. Snapdeal on the other hand will help the company scale up and expand its current business and reach. As of now, Exclusively retails products from designers like Manish Malhotra, Tarun Tahiliani, Manish Arora, Anita Dongre, Rohit Bal,  Shivan & Narresh, Gaurav Gupta, JJ Valaya, Ritu Kumar, Varun Bahl, and Neeta Lulla, to name a few. This year, the company plans to launch leading international luxury brands and designers on its site. Founded in June 2010, Exclusively.com offers products in a number of categories including apparels, jewellery, handbags and accessories. While it started off targeting the US and the UK markets, the company now caters to the Indian market. Interestingly, the company was reported to have been acquired by fashion portal Myntra.com in 2012. At the time, Myntra had acquired Shersingh.com. The two sites (Shersingh.com and Exclusively.com) were functioning under the same umbrella back then. Exclusively.com could not be reached out to for an immediate response.