Mark Zuckerberg, in Suit, Testifies in Oculus Intellectual Property Trial: Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, has said virtual reality could be the next big thing in technology. While virtual reality hasn t quite reached the mainstream, it has succeeded in landing Mr. Zuckerberg in the middle of a courtroom fight over who owns a crucial piece of the technology. The dispute started two and a half years ago when a videogame publisher, ZeniMax Media, sued Oculus VR, a start-up behind a virtual reality headset, only months after Facebook announced that it would acquire Oculus for $2 billion. ZeniMax accused Oculus of stealing important elements of the technology that went into the creation of the headset, eventually including Facebook among the parties it was suing. While fights over ownership of prominent technologies are common, this one defied some predictions by making it to a jury trial, which started in a federal court here in early January. On Tuesday, Mr. Zuckerberg made a rare appearance in court and was questioned about the Oculus deal. While pushing back on accusations that Oculus took technology that it didn t own, Mr. Zuckerberg said it was his first time testifying in a courtroom.  We are highly confident that Oculus products are built on Oculus technology,  said Mr. Zuckerberg, who wore a suit while testifying, instead of his regular uniform of a hoodie and jeans.  The idea that Oculus products are based on someone else s technology is just wrong.  Facebook could face hefty damages if it loses the suit, which could make its payoff from virtual reality recede further into the future. While virtual reality has excited people in the technology industry, most headsets, including those from Oculus, are not selling in big numbers because of high prices and limited content for them. The core of ZeniMax s case is that one of its former employees, John Carmack, shared ZeniMax virtual reality technology with Palmer Luckey, a founder of Oculus, during the early days of Oculus, technology for which ZeniMax was never compensated. Mr. Carmack, a game industry stalwart behind games like Doom, later joined Oculus.