Wi-fi first telcos might be about to disrupt the telecom business: It would not be an insult to say Republic Wireless and FreedomPop are obscure little companies. But they dream big. The two companies are at the forefront of a tantalizing wireless communications concept that has proved hard to produce on a big scale: Reduce cellphone costs by relying on strategically placed Wi-Fi routers. And when there are no routers available, fall back on the traditional cellular network. They have been at this for nearly five years with mixed success. The companies say they are already profitable and gradually adding subscribers. But they are tiny   both say their customers are in the hundreds of thousands. Verizon Wireless, by comparison, has more than 100 million. Still, the upstarts have been trailblazers, proof that alternative wireless networks are feasible and maybe even profitable. Now some giant companies look to be following their lead. Last month, Cablevision announced a phone service that would be powered entirely by Wi-Fi, for $30 a month, while a traditional wireless contract costs around $100 a month. Google has also been working on a cellphone service that relies heavily on Wi-Fi, according to people briefed on the company s plans. For consumers, all this could be very good news. The big American carriers   Verizon Wireless, AT&T, Sprint and T-Mobile USA   have not been worried about their Wi-Fi-powered competitors. But Cablevision and Google could force them to pay attention. And an industry already engaged in a price-cut war could be compelled to go even lower to keep the upstarts at bay.  Wi-Fi first is a massive disrupter to the current cost structure of the industry,  said Stephen Stokols, chief executive of FreedomPop.  That s going to be a big shock to the carriers.  The concept championed by the two little companies in their nationwide services is surprisingly simple. The traditional wireless carriers operate their services with cell towers, but occasionally in areas with extra heavy traffic they resort to Wi-Fi to bear some of the load. FreedomPop and Republic Wireless do the opposite. They offer services that rely primarily on Wi-Fi networks, and in areas without Wi-Fi, customers can pull a signal from regular cell towers.