Wall Street starts to get restless about Google's 'moonshots'; firm's R&D costs stood at highest-ever 12% of revenue in 2014, but returns were sparse: Last month, after years of promotion, Google ended a test trial of its Internet-connected glasses, called Glass. While the device seemed to have promising commercial applications in hospitals or on factory floors, its first pass at the consumer world was unsuccessful. The very public failure of Glass points to a bigger question. After patiently abiding a steep increase in research and development spending on efforts that range from biology to space exploration, Wall Street is starting to wonder when   and if   Google s science projects will pay off.  We want companies to continue to push the envelope, but there has to be some financial responsibility around that,  said Ben Schachter, an analyst at Macquarie Securities.  We have no real insight into what s going on.  So investors are left to guess. Two years ago, analysts estimated that Glass sales would be $3 billion to $11 billion by 2018. Google s self-driving car project, which faces huge technological and regulatory hurdles, has been called a $200 billion opportunity by Gene Munster, an analyst at Piper Jaffray.  These are guesses at best,  he said.  Our price target is based on things that are tangible, but we say on top of that there are wild cards.  The wisdom of financing wild cards would not be under question if Google s core advertising business   which accounts for about 90 percent of its revenue   were roaring. But its growth, while still up about 20 percent from a year ago, has slowed, and the company s dominance in desktop search engines has been eroded as consumers spend more time on mobile phones whose tiny screens are a less lucrative ad space. Now, instead of pie-in-the-sky estimates for products that may never become reality, the focus is on more mundane issues like costs and profit margins. Research and development costs grew to about 12 percent of gross revenue last year, the highest share since the company went public in 2004. That includes the vast majority of engineers and technical expenses at the company.