Contrasting routes to staying relevant: Texas Instruments ('small and spread out') and Cisco ('big and comprehensive'): Texas Instruments, a 63-year-old company that produced the first silicon transistor, ran into trouble several years ago selling digital chips for wireless products. The company refocused on cheaper and less sophisticated nondigital chips. Done well, these chips have exceptional profit margins, and Texas Instruments  stock has gained 143 percent in the past five years. The Dow Jones industrial average is up 78 percent over the same period. The chips also turn out to be profitable at a time when seemingly everything is acquiring some kind of machine intelligence. Performance improvements that used to happen with better mechanical engineering now come from closer monitoring and computer analysis. Mr. Templeton foresaw Texas Instruments as targeting a lot of small manufacturers, the kinds of places with 50 employees turning out just a few products, that never came near his business before. The reason is that almost every part of the manufactured world, including things like outboard motors or novelty doorbells, is going to have to include machine intelligence to monitor its performance. He plans to sell it to small manufacturers through an online catalog of parts, with salespeople touching the larger accounts.  It ll be difficult for you and your world to analyze,  he warned a room full of Wall Street bankers.  It s literally hundreds of thousands of customers, very disaggregated.  On Wednesday, Cisco Systems reported second-quarter earnings well above what Wall Street expected. Revenue was $11.9 billion, versus a consensus estimate of $11.8 billion published in a survey by Thomson Reuters. Adjusted net income was $2.7 billion, or 53 cents a share, compared with an expected 51 cents a share. For John T. Chambers, Cisco s chief, it seemed a vindication for several years of struggle.  I m not sure people outside Cisco appreciate the magnitude of the changes we have made in the past years,  he said in an interview. Cisco, he said, had changed 30 percent of its leadership, moved 40 percent of its employees from traditional businesses like computer networking hardware, and into software, industry-specific applications, collaboration and cloud computing. Cisco laid off 6,000 people from its ranks of 74,000, but also hired 6,000 people for other jobs. All those changes were similar to what Texas Instruments had gone through: The old company was retooling for a world in which machine intelligence is everywhere. So far, however, Cisco s  big and comprehensive  approach does not have the payoff of T.I. s  small and spread out  style. These things have a way of swinging, of course, and the first rule for any incumbent facing change is the same: Find a way to survive that works for what you ve got.