Amazon Prime delivery was riddled with problems this holiday season, says survey - Amazon is n't so sure: Amazon.com Inc packages ordered by its Prime members regularly arrived late during the holidays, a Reuters/Ipsos survey shows, reflecting the strain on the logistics network that transformed the company into an e-commerce powerhouse. Customer satisfaction with Prime is extremely high - 96 percent are happy with its two-day shipping service, the survey revealed. But the results raise questions for Amazon as it expands and takes greater control of its shipping system. Amazon said the survey was flawed and disputed its findings. Amazon said U.S. Prime memberships increased 50 percent last year. Analysts reckon that the largest U.S. online retailer now promises standard two-day shipping to what amounts to nearly one-third of U.S. households. In the Reuters/Ipsos poll conducted last month, 10 percent of about 1,700 Amazon shoppers who chose the two-day shipping option said packages ordered between Nov. 1 and Dec. 31 did not arrive on the expected day. Amazon has increasingly tapped local and regional package delivery companies to cut costs and improve speeds. None of the firms Amazon lists as delivery partners on its website would comment for this article. This is the first time Reuters has conducted this survey, so it is unclear how Amazon fared in the past. In addition, Reuters did not compare delays at Amazon with other retailers. The Reuters/Ipsos survey had a credibility interval of plus or minus 1.4 percentage points. Amazon's net shipping costs as a percentage of revenue have remained relatively constant over the last several years, at about 4.7 percent. However, Amazon and other shippers continue to worry about rising costs. Early this month, United Parcel Service Inc said it would begin applying surcharges to deliver packages to homes. UPS, which reported that its earnings were hit by holiday shipping expenses, said its own cost to deliver a package to a residence are three times more than to a business. Guaranteed two-day shipping on items as low as a few dollars - such as $5.17 for a set of measuring spoons - costs Amazon big. Prime is also the vehicle for Amazon's other pricey ventures, including film and television production, same-day shipping and even one-hour delivery in New York.