Flush with cash, Apple is expected to expand its share buyback programs, CEO asserts that Apple isn t a cash hoarder. That s the message Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook delivered to investors on Tuesday at the Goldman Sachs Technology and Internet Conference in San Francisco.  By and large, my view is for cash that we don t need -- with some level of buffer -- we want to give back,  Cook said.  It may come across that we are, but we re not hoarders.  The Cupertino, California-based company is reviewing its capital-return program and will announce changes in April, he said. Apple has completed $103 billion of its $130 billion dividend and stock-repurchase plan, which has been increased several times before.  We started with dividends and buybacks and we ve tweaked that model every year,  Cook said.  We ve been sort of on a cadence of once a year we look at it very deeply, very thoughtfully, and we change the program accordingly.  The iPhone maker ended December with $178 billion in cash and marketable securities, according to a company statement on Jan. 27. Of that, $157.8 billion was held by foreign subsidiaries, where the money is shielded from U.S. taxes unless it s repatriated. The company has raised the equivalent of more than $40 billion in debt in less than two years to help finance dividends and buybacks, including the sale of $6.5 billion in bonds last week and 1.25 billion Swiss francs ($1.35 billion) of bonds in that currency this week. Apple is boosting its borrowing as it seeks to return more capital to investors without incurring U.S. taxes on foreign profits. The company s cash hoard grew by about $23 billion in the December quarter from the previous period as the introduction of more expensive, larger-screened iPhones helped boost Apple s profit to a record. China in particular was a bright spot, with sales rising 70 percent. Billionaire activist investor Carl Icahn has been pressuring Apple to increase its buybacks, arguing that the stock is undervalued and should be trading at a price that would give the company a market capitalization of more than $1 trillion. The shares rose 1.9 percent to $122.02 on Tuesday in New York trading, boosting the company s market value to more than $710 billion.  In April, we believe Apple is set to announce a new 3-year total capital return program in the $150 billion to $200 billion range when it refreshes its goals this spring,  Ben Reitzes, an analyst at Barclays Plc, wrote in a note to investors.  We believe management will want to give itself some flexibility to raise this forecast later down the road (its usual practice) and also have some flexibility to re-evaluate the targets should it get more certainty on tax policies. 