Recent product updates from Facebook showcase the firm's sophistication in location targeting and audience targeting: Local Awareness Ads: Overview: Businesses now have the option of targeting their Facebook ads to individuals located near one of their brick-and-mortar stores. Details: Driving foot traffic that leads to sales is now a reality via Facebook. Advertisers can set a radius as small as a mile, and the Facebook ads will show up on the phones or web browsers of anyone who lives or was recently within that distance of a store. Businesses can even include directions in their ad, via a button that launches a map app on a consumer s phone. Retailer Opportunities: Instead of broadly targeting your ads to an entire city, you can now reach people within a mile of your store. What You Should Know: This new geotargeting feature is really only beneficial to those online retailers that also have a brick-and-mortar presence. Also, these ads aren t served in real-time, meaning that someone walking past your business won t immediately see your store s ad. Local awareness ads are available only for US business owners. Facebook Combines Atlas, Audience Network and LiveRail: Overview: The past two years of Facebook launches and acquisitions have now come together to show ads across the internet and track purchases they inspire both online and offline. Details: In February 2013, Facebook acquired Microsoft s Atlas, a suite of tools for online ad measurement. Facebook is using Atlas as part of its push to measure across devices and platforms, and to leverage display targeting capabilities. In July 2014, Facebook acquired LiveRail, a video platform. Meanwhile, Facebook had built and launched Audience Network, a mobile ad network that lets advertisers easily extend their Facebook ad campaigns to appear in other mobile apps. The combo of Atlas, LiveRail and Audience Network now gives Facebook the connectivity to tie each of these pieces together. Retailer Opportunities: Advertisers on Atlas can buy ads on Facebook or use Audience Network to extend their campaigns to LiveRail and mobile apps. What You Should Know: Facebook understands its users  identities in a way most platforms don t. And the company s wealth of user data means it can target ads more accurately.