Twitter Q4 earnings: revenue $479M, +97% Y/Y; net loss narrows to $125M, stock up 11% on monetization success, but user growth continues to fall: Twitter on Thursday said its fourth-quarter revenue increased 97 percent to $479.1 million, with the net loss narrowing to $125.4 million. The San Francisco-based company also projected adding 13 million to 16 million users in the first quarter, up 4.5 percent sequentially -- faster than the 1.4 percent growth in the prior period. The results sent Twitter s shares soaring in extended trading, adding to gains so far this year that are reversing last year s 44 percent stock price drop. Chief Executive Officer Costolo, who has been under fire for the company s slowing user growth and management turbulence, is working to recover investor trust by rolling out new features to attract people to the microblogging site and to rev up advertising revenue.  We know they have the monetization tools to significantly grow the business,  said James Cakmak, an analyst at Monness Crespi Hardt & Co., adding that investors may forgive Twitter for slow user growth because of moves to distribute tweets more widely.  They get a pass this time.  Twitter isn t out of the woods with investors. The company s membership growth continues to decelerate year-over-year, even with the forecast for user growth to pick up sequentially in the current quarter. For the fourth quarter, monthly active users increased 20 percent from a year ago to 288 million, compared with 23 percent growth in the prior period. The company said the rollout of a new mobile operating system from Apple Inc. and integration issues cost it 4 million new users. For the first quarter, Twitter projected revenue of $440 million to $450 million, compared with the average analyst estimate of $449.9 million.  He did a great job taking some fairly negative results and putting them in a positive light,  Nate Elliott, an analyst at Forrester Research Inc., said of Costolo.  But the fact is, every quarter they make a big deal about how important it is to grow their user base, and every quarter they fail.  The changes are intended to keep people glued to Twitter s product for longer. In the fourth quarter, the company said its members viewed their timelines more often, with 182 billion views, compared with 181 billion in the prior quarter. Mobile advertising was 88 percent of total ad revenue in the fourth quarter, Twitter said. International revenue more than doubled. 