Indian startup action: Alipay comes to India: investment in One97 confirmed; will acquire 25% stake - financials not disclosed: (more coverage here) Ant Financial, the affiliate group of Alibaba that oversees its third-party payment service Alipay, has invested in India s One97, the parent company of third-party payment service Paytm, Bloomberg reports. The size of the investment has not been disclosed, but Ant Financial will take a 25 percent stake in the New Delhi-based firm. Rumors of the investment had been circulating for weeks, with the Wall Street Journal and others reporting the round was worth US$575 million. Paytm is a payment processor built specifically for India s mobile shoppers. The Reserve Bank of India places tough restrictions on companies looking to receive a PPI license (prepaid payment instrument) license, so Paytm s permission, coupled with its two-tap checkout procedure, have helped it gain strong traction domestically. When Tech in Asia profiled the company in October 2014, founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma claimed that Paytm was processing 600,000 orders every day, and 5 million orders on mobile every month. Ant Financial Services Group, China s leading online financial services company that owns AliPay, is all set to acquire 25 per cent stake in Noida-headquartered mobile internet firm One97 Communications Ltd. The financials of the deal are not disclosed. Ant Financial, an affiliate of China s Alibaba Group Holding Ltd, will provide One97 s m-com and virtual wallet property Paytm with strategic and technical support for its business, following the deal. The companies will also build on synergies in the mobile wallet front. This deal also marks Ant Financial s entry into the Indian market. Last month, Techcircle.in had reported that One97 is raising $575 million from the world s largest e-com firm Alibaba and the group s separate payment unit Alipay. This was in addition to $60 million more from existing lead investor SAIF Partners. One97 had zeroed in on Alibaba Group as the new investor after negotiating with various possible suitors including Singapore s state-owned investment firm Temasek among others. It had signed a term-sheet for investment with Temasek as first reported by Techcircle.in but decided to go ahead with a deal with Alibaba. Founded in 2000, One97 Communications is a leading mobile-internet company in India that offers digital goods & services to its mobile consumers under the Paytm brand. It also provides mobile advertising, marketing and payments for merchants. In addition, it has a partnership with existing lead investor SAIF Partners where it invests in early stage mobile internet startups through One97 Mobility Fund.