Major hacker attack on US insurance giant Anthem - motives unclear, but fears of Chinese state-sponsored group involvement:: A hack at Anthem, the second-largest health insurer in the country, exposed personal information about millions of employees and customers. But the attack is just the latest evidence that cybercriminals are increasingly targeting the medical sector where they can collect health information that can be sold for a premium on the black market. "What we've seen in the last few years is that attackers have realized the economics of health-care data are very, very attractive," says Lee Weiner, senior vice president at cybersecurity firm Rapid7. Anthem said hackers collected several pieces of personal information about its employees and customers, including Social Security numbers, birthdays and street and e-mail addresses. But the hack also included medical information numbers, which can be among the most damaging types of stolen data and be used to commit medical fraud, according to security experts. Complete health insurance credentials sold for $20 a piece on underground markets in 2013, according to Dell SecureWorks. That is 10 to 20 times more than a U.S. credit card number with a security code. Fears of Chinese state-sponsored group involvement: Investigators of Anthem Inc. s data breach are pursuing evidence that points to Chinese state-sponsored hackers who are stealing personal information from health-care companies for purposes other than pure profit, according to three people familiar with the probe. The breach, which exposed Social Security numbers and other sensitive details of 80 million customers, is one of the biggest thefts of medical-related customer data in U.S. history.  The attack appears to follow a pattern of thefts of medical data by foreigners seeking a pathway into the personal lives and computers of a select group -- defense contractors, government workers and others, according to a U.S. government official familiar with a more than year-long investigation into the evidence of a broader campaign. The Federal Bureau of Investigation is leading the investigation, according to Anthem, which has hired FireEye Inc., a Milpitas, California-based security company, to assist. China has said in the past that it doesn t conduct espionage through hacking. The Chinese embassy in Washington didn t immediately respond to a request for comment. Hackers could use stolen information -- which Anthem said in its case included birthdates and e-mail addresses -- to conduct  phishing  attacks on customers who unwittingly provide access to their companies  networks. Government officials have been investigating whether foreign interests are using personal, financial or medical information as leverage to gain intelligence from people who want their information to stay private, according to the U.S. official.