Tinder has redefined user behavior and is driving an explosion in online dating: Online dating, long dominated by big outfits like Match.com and eHarmony, has in the last two years been transformed by the rise of Tinder, the mobile phone app that lets its users scan photos and short profiles of potential dates. Then, as easy as a swipe of a finger, you can decide if you want to chat or pass on a prospect. But Tinder s free app isn t the only mobile dating game in town. Many app makers are trying to capitalize on the Tinder method of simple, smartphone-based dating. Of course, they add a twist to the swipe. An app called Hinge sifts only through your Facebook connections for friends of friends. Clover offers Tinder-like features but with an added, if dubious, bonus called  On-Demand Dating.  Think Uber for dating   you pick a location and a date, and Clover sends someone to meet you. And there are others with variations on the theme, including How About We, where you pose an idea for a fun date and see who bites, and the League, sort of a mobile dating app for the 1 percent: it promotes exclusivity and a carefully selected clientele. It s easier, faster and more discreet to swipe through an app than to create laborious online profiles. The downside of that convenience is uncertainty, since mobile profiles tend to be sparse or nonexistent. Still, this simplicity has caused Tinder s growth to explode in just two years. According to the company, it processes more than one billion swipes a day and matches some 12 million people a day. A  match  means two people agreed they were interested in one another. From there, they can choose whether to exchange messages or meet in person. Traditional dating sites like Match.com, eHarmony and OkCupid also have apps that let their users keep tabs on their profiles, messages and matches, of course. In fact Tinder, Match and OkCupid, among other dating sites, are all part of the IAC/InterActiveCorp media conglomerate. Amarnath Thombre, president of Match.com in North America, said that in the last year it had registered a 35 percent increase in the people who use Match through the app each month, and a 109 percent increase in the number of people who use only the app to reach Match every month. But he acknowledged that Tinder was creating an entirely new audience of digital daters.  What Tinder especially has accomplished, which I think none of our competitors could achieve before, is that it opened up this young demographic   18- to 25-year-olds   that no product could open up before,  Mr. Thombre said.