Twitter stock jumped more than 6% as investors cheered its ad distribution deals for Promoted Tweets on Flipboard, Yahoo Japan. The stock was up on Tuesday after the social media company said its promoted tweets will appear on third-party mobile apps and websites under a new advertising distribution program. The syndication program will broaden the reach of Twitter's ads beyond the 284 million monthly users who access its service every month, Twitter said. Its first partners are newsreader app Flipboard and Yahoo Japan. "For the thousands of brands already advertising on Twitter, these new partnerships open a significant opportunity to extend the reach of their message to a larger audience," Twitter said in a post on its official blog. Twitter is due to report its fourth-quarter financial results on Thursday. The company's stock price has been under pressure, down roughly 40 percent from its 52-week high of $67.24, on investor concerns that it is struggling to add new users to its service. Promoted tweets are going to show up outside of Twitter for the first time, the company announced today, revealing part of its strategy for increasing ad exposure that had been been limited to its own site and apps. Now, it will serve paid Twitter messages to partner sites and apps, including Flipboard and Yahoo Japan, partly owned by Yahoo. Both Web properties already have strong Twitter integrations with sections devoted to streams of activity powered by the social messaging site. Twitter said its Promoted Tweets would show up in those Twitter content areas on the third-party sites, as well as in other sections of the sites, and the ads would have the "same look and feel that is native" to the experiences on them. Twitter also said brands would be able to use the same targeting data and creative they use on its platform to reach users with these syndicated tweets. It is clear why Twitter is looking to expand its ad business off its own ad platform, a strategy it started wholly embracing when it bought the ad network MoPub in 2013: It needs to find larger audiences than it attracts on its own. With MoPub, Twitter has said it can hit more than 1 billion users on mobile devices across various Web properties. While announcing syndicated Promoted Tweets, it said that last quarter tweets generated 185 billion impressions outside Twitter.