Even-steven: Apple will spend $2B on a data center in Arizona, even as AT&T sells data center assets worth $2B: On Monday, Arizona announced that Apple would invest $2 billion in the creation of a data center at a facility in Mesa after its original plans to produce sapphire, a material tougher than glass, there were abandoned. Apple had contracted GT Advanced Technologies, a sapphire producer, to make sapphire screens for iPhones, among other things. But to Apple s surprise, GTAT declared bankruptcy last October after failing to meet some of Apple s demands. As a result, Apple released it latest iPhones without sapphire. While Apple may have abandoned sapphire production at the Arizona facility, the company has not given up on the facility itself, which measures 1.3 million square feet. Apple on Monday said that the multibillion-dollar investment in the data center was one of its most significant investments ever, creating 600 engineering and construction jobs. The center will be partly used as a central command center for monitoring Apple s other data centers around the world, the company said. AT&T Inc is selling some data centers worth about $2 billion as it continues its streak of asset sales, people familiar with the matter said on Monday. AT&T, the No. 2 U.S wireless provider, has been exploring options to pay down its debt and raise funds for investments in recent months. The company declined to comment. The three sources requested anonymity because the matter is not public. AT&T and its rival Verizon have been selling non-core assets in recent months. Verizon is close to announcing divestitures of wireless towers and wireline markets worth $10 billion, the Wall Street Journal reported on Monday. AT&T hired a financial adviser to assist in the sale. Following spectrum investments and pending acquisitions, AT&T's debt ratio may rise in the near term, the company said last week after spending close to half of the total bids in the record-setting $44.9 billion spectrum sale that concluded last week. AT&T emerged the top bidder in the AWS-3 spectrum auction by bagging 251 licenses worth $18.2 billion.