Google CFO sounds unconcerned at prospect of browsers replacing Google as default search engine: Patrick Pichette, Google's chief financial officer, says people can change. On Thursday's earnings call, he suggested that people will seek out Google's search engine even if their browsers default to a different one. "If they love Google, they'll continue to find Google, whichever platform, whichever browser," Pichette said on the call. "The way to win in this in the long term is very simple. You just make wonderful products. And when you make wonderful products that are magical, people will find them." That's some magical thinking, but it's probably wrong. In November, Mozilla switched to Yahoo! as the default search engine on Firefox in the U.S. The next month, Google's share of the U.S. search market sank 4 percentage points, the biggest drop since 2009, according to analytics firm StatCounter. That month, Yahoo increased its share by 3 percentage points. Pichette declined to comment on the Mozilla deal. Google isn't in danger of losing its money-printing machine to Marissa Mayer any time soon. Even after that victory last month, the Yahoo chief executive officer has amassed just 10.4 percent of the U.S. search market. Google has 75.2 percent of it and even more in Europe. There's only so much impact Firefox can have. The once-dominant browser has been left hanging onto about 12 percent of U.S. users, according to StatCounter. And there's still a chance that some Firefox faithful will switch their settings back to Google. The real reason Google investors are biting their nails over the Firefox deal is because Apple could do the same thing. Apple makes a lot of money from Google searches made through its Safari Web browser on the iPhone and iPad. But it's no secret that relations between the two companies are about as deflated as Tom Brady's footballs. Besides dropping Google Maps and YouTube from home screens, Apple went with Microsoft's Bing to power Siri's new search features. Microsoft knows better than anyone that default software settings stick. A few years back, Microsoft researchers discovered that less than 5 percent of users touch any application settings at all. 