Google Q4 earnings: revenue $18.1B, +15% Y/Y; net income $4.76B, shares flat on indifferent results: In the last three months of 2014, Google s net revenue growth slowed to 10 percent when compared with the same quarter a year ago, according to an earnings report released Thursday. While impressive for a company with more than $60 billion in revenue, it is well short of the recent results of other tech industry standard-bearers, like Apple and Facebook. Google s search business would still be the envy of most companies. Revenue from Google s own sites, which includes things like its search engine and YouTube and accounts for a little more than two-thirds of the company s business, increased 18 percent compared with a year ago. Indeed, Google s share of search ad spending in the United States, including desktop and mobile devices, was 71.6 percent in 2014, according to eMarketer. In a conference call with Wall Street analysts, Google executives declined to answer questions about the company s lesser-known businesses. But there were some indications of progress. Google said revenue in the  other  category   including the Play Store, where people can buy digital goods like mobile applications or streamed movies, and other services Google sells to businesses   increased 19 percent from the same quarter of last year, to $1.95 billion. The company reported revenue of $18.1 billion in the fourth quarter of 2014, a 15 percent increase from the same period last year. Net revenue, which excludes payments to Google s advertising partners, was $14.5 billion. Net income was $4.76 billion in the quarter, compared with $3.38 billion in the fourth quarter of 2013. Earnings per share, not including certain charges, were slightly below analyst expectations. Analysts had also expected net revenue   the figure excluding advertiser payments   to be $14.8 billion, according to Bloomberg. Notably, research and development costs rose to $2.8 billion from $2.1 billion in the same quarter a year ago, stoking fears that efforts Google executives like to call  moonshots    like investing in a private rocket company   are adding to expenses with no hope of a financial return in the near future.The report comes at a rough time for Google s stock. Shares in the company, as of Thursday morning, were down about 10 percent since April 2014, a period in which the Standard & Poor s 500-stock index has increased and peers like Facebook have rallied 25 percent. Google shares were up a little more than 1 percent in after-hours trading after the results were announced.