In an unusual move, a Chinese government agency slammed Alibaba, sending its stock down 4%: Alibaba hit back, personally criticizing a government official. More coverage here: In unusually blunt criticism, a Chinese government agency on Wednesday took aim at the e-commerce giant Alibaba Group for what it said were unlicensed merchants, fake goods and other illegal practices on its hugely popular shopping websites. The news sent Alibaba s shares down more than 4 percent in New York China s main corporate regulator, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, released a report summarizing its findings of the deficiencies on Alibaba s sites, including Taobao Marketplace and Tmall.com. In a statement on its website, the regulator said that after a thorough review, it had discovered  the long-term existence of illegal problems regarding the management of transaction activity and other issues.  The agency said that it had presented the findings to unidentified top Alibaba executives in a July 17 meeting at the company s headquarters in the eastern city of Hangzhou, but that it had kept the results confidential at the time so as  not to affect Alibaba s preparations for a stock market listing.  Alibaba went on to raise a record $25 billion in September in an initial public offering in New York. The regulator s report, first made public on Wednesday, said it had found 19 problems in five main areas on Alibaba s sites. Those included a number of unlicensed or unregistered vendors selling items, including knockoffs and goods that were improperly imported or banned from sale in China. Such items included fake cigarettes, wine and mobile phones; knockoff handbags; gambling equipment; wiretapping devices; and restricted types of knives. In a response on its verified account on the social messaging service Weibo, Taobao on Wednesday said that it had been a victim of fakes and had gone to great lengths to prevent them from being sold on its site. At the same time, the company took issue with the regulator s approach, saying that it  welcomes fair and just supervision  but that the agency had not been objective. Taobao went further still, and in a rarely seen public criticism of a government official, it accused Liu Hongliang, a bureau chief at the administration for industry and commerce, of using inappropriate procedures in carrying out his investigation. The company said it would file a formal complaint to the agency.