Facebook earnings: Q4 revenue $3.85B, +49% Y/Y; net income $701M, +34% Y/Y; sharply higher expenses send stock down 2%: When Mark Zuckerberg warned investors three months ago that Facebook s expenses were going to rise sharply, he really meant it. The company reported on Wednesday that revenue increased 49 percent in the fourth quarter compared to the previous year, exceeding Wall Street s expectations. But expenses rose even faster, up 87 percent from the same quarter a year ago, driven in part by a huge increase in stock payouts to employees. The social network, which makes most of its money by including advertising in the news feeds of its users, said about 69 percent of its advertising revenue came from mobile devices, which have become the most common way people tap into the service. Facebook reported that it had 1.39 billion monthly users worldwide in December, up 3.2 percent from September. Facebook said that it had revenue of $3.85 billion in the fourth quarter, compared to $2.59 billion a year ago. Net income was $701 million, or 25 cents a share, up from $523 million, or 20 cents a share, in the previous fourth quarter. After excluding certain expenses, the company s profit was 54 cents a share. On that adjusted basis, Wall Street had expected the company to earn 49 cents a share on revenue of $3.77 billion. Facebook s share price was down about 2 percent in after-hours trading after the results were announced. The stock is up more than 40 percent over the last year. The company said it brought in an average of $9 in revenue per American and Canadian user during the quarter. European and Asian users are much less lucrative, while newer areas of focus for the company, like Africa, bring in virtually no revenue. Over all, the average Facebook user was worth $2.81 to the company in the quarter. Video, which Facebook began highlighting last summer, was particularly strong in the quarter, the company said, with users viewing three billion videos a day. Ms. Sandberg said the company still anticipated huge opportunities to sell more ads, and was investing heavily in measurement technology to prove to advertisers that the platform delivers results. At the same time, Facebook is in no rush to make money from the separate services it owns, including Instagram, a photo-sharing service which has 300 million users, and WhatsApp, which has 700 million.