Amazon Web Services on Wednesday announced Amazon WorkMail, an email service that adds a new front to the fierce competition in the cloud. WorkMail, which works behind existing interfaces like Microsoft Outlook, is being promoted as safer and cheaper than other systems.  Customers have repeatedly asked us for a business email and calendaring service that is more cost-effective and simpler to manage than their on-premises solution, more secure than the cloud-based offerings available today, and that is backed by the same best-in-class infrastructure platform on which they re reliably running so many of their current (and future) workloads,  said Peter De Santis, vice president of AWS Compute Services, said in a news release. More here: Amazon.com accelerated its efforts to win over corporate clients on Wednesday by announcing an email and scheduling service that will compete with Microsoft Corp (MSFT.O) and Google Inc (GOOGL.O). The service, dubbed WorkMail, will launch in the second quarter and has been developed by the company's cloud computing unit, Amazon Web Services (AWS). It highlights Amazon's efforts to convince deep-pocketed companies, called enterprises in tech parlance, to shift more of their work to AWS. Launching an email and scheduling service is likely the first step toward a broader suite of Amazon tools to gain corporate clients, analysts said. For example, Google's Gmail offers many other services beyond email and calendars including file-sharing and video conferencing. AWS has spent the last couple of years trying to get corporate clients on board because big businesses spend more on data centers than startups, who were the initial focus of its business. But there are concerns that Amazon is spreading itself too thin, given its other sizeable investments in areas like Hollywood-style production and consumer devices. "Email is a Trojan Horse into the enterprise," Baird analyst Colin Sebastian said. He added that email is a $1 billion opportunity for Amazon given the popularity of AWS and Amazon's willingness to sacrifice margins for volume.