Long overshadowed by its rival Alibaba, JD has emerged as China s other online goliath by carving out its own distinct identity: While Alibaba s marketplace serves as a platform to connect buyers and sellers, JD buys goods from manufacturers and distributors and holds the inventory in its own warehouses, in a model that echoes Amazon s. It then arranges for quick delivery of virtually everything from television sets and refrigerators to socks and T-shirts, using motorbikes that weave in and out of traffic in some of the country s biggest cities. Like Amazon, JD has invested heavily in infrastructure, pumping more than $1.5 billion into building and leasing warehouses and order-fulfillment centers around China. But JD has gone even further, venturing into home delivery with its own fleet of trucks and more than 20,000 couriers, all in the hope of capturing what is projected to be a $1 trillion Chinese e-commerce market by 2020. JD, which is publicly traded in the United States, is now China s biggest direct-sales retailer, with 46 million active users and an estimated $20 billion in revenue last year.  This isn t a business model for everyone, but they were smart to build it,  said Elinor Leung, a Hong Kong-based Internet analyst at CLSA, an investment bank.  Now, their traffic is exploding.  And yet this costly approach to building an online retailer has worried some analysts, who say that JD could be weighed down by its physical assets and mounting debt. Several analysts say the company won t turn a profit before 2017. Competitors like Jack Ma, chairman of Alibaba, have even disparaged the company s business model, calling it tragically flawed.  It s not that we are better,  Mr. Ma said in a recently published interview.  It s an issue of direction. So, I tell my people: Definitely do not get involved with JD.com. Don t come blaming us if you die one day.  He later apologized for his comments. Executives at JD, which is based in Beijing, insist they are building a company that will eventually have a commanding advantage in e-commerce, with strong customer service, speedy delivery and assurances that the products it ships are authentic, not counterfeit. Among the biggest challenges now, they say, is keeping up with an enormous volume of online orders, which have doubled in each of the last three years.  If we wanted, we could be profitable right now,  said Shen Haoyu, chief executive of JD Mall, the company s biggest division.  But our immediate goal is to grow our customer base.  the company boasts seven fulfillment centers and 118 warehouses in 39 cities. There are also 1,045 smaller pickup centers in about 500 cities. And since 2010, the company has pledged that most online orders placed before 11 at night will be delivered by 3 p.m. the next day. Morgan Stanley calls JD s business model a combination of Amazon and UPS; other analysts say the company is beginning to look like Walmart, steeped in logistics and infrastructure and backed by a website.