Verizon s mobile  supercookies  show how telcos are monetizing user data:  Verizon is now at the forefront of telecommunications companies selling intelligence about their customers to advertisers. AT&T experimented last year with a similar ad-targeting program, which involved inserting a unique numeric code into a subscriber s web requests. But after scrutiny in the news media, AT&T said it was halting its program, at least until it came up with a better approach. The ad-targeting experiments by Verizon and AT&T are striking examples of the data-mining opportunities open to phone carriers now that they have become the nexus of the information universe, providing a connection to the Internet for people anywhere they go, at any time. Verizon s marketing efforts are part of a high-frequency digital ad trading system called real-time bidding, in which many kinds of players track and analyze users  online activities to identify the characteristics of those who would be most receptive to certain ads. A Verizon service called Relevant Mobile Advertising, for instance, combines details obtained from information resellers like Acxiom and Experian with the wireless carrier s own data to classify its mobile subscribers by gender, income, interests or other criteria; the company allows its subscribers to opt out of receiving ads customized through this program. Another service, called Verizon Selects   which consumers can opt in to in exchange for reward points   segments subscribers based on their web browsing and use of apps. Verizon says its customer categorization programs offer an advantage to advertisers because the company has a direct relationship with subscribers and it can understand their general location based on the places from which they make calls or send texts. The services use a unique alphanumeric code for each subscriber, rather than real names or contact information, to group them into ad clusters. Mr. Atreya, the Verizon director, says the company changes these customer codes every few days.