Yahoo likely to announce plans to avoid huge tax hit on Alibaba windfall - two possible structures considered plausible: Yahoo on Tuesday is expected to reveal something most companies usually try to keep secret: how it plans to avoid a multibillion-dollar tax bill. The Web portal has spent more than a year figuring out how to cash out a chunk of its $40 billion stake in China-based Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. Typically, a U.S. company faces a federal tax bill of about 35 percent when it sells stock in another enterprise for cash. Yahoo took a $3 billion tax hit last year when it sold about $10 billion in Alibaba shares. This time around, activist investors are leaning on the Sunnyvale, California-based company to be more savvy. Marissa Mayer, Yahoo s chief executive officer, probably will maintain at least part of the Alibaba holding to keep a finger in China s fast-growing Web market. Were Yahoo to sell the entire stake, it could face a federal tax bill of as much as $14 billion.Here are some of Yahoo s options to avoid capital-gains tax, both legal: Option One: Last summer, John Malone s Liberty Ventures wanted to avoid taxes on selling its stake in travel website TripAdvisor Inc. Liberty did so by transferring that stake, as well as online costume-retailer BuySeasons, to a new unit created specifically for the deal. Under the plan, the new unit took out a $400 million bank loan. Most of that cash was destined for Liberty and the new unit s stock spun off to Liberty shareholders. The expectation was that TripAdvisor would acquire the new unit in exchange for the travel site s own stock. TripAdvisor also agreed to repay the $400 million loan. When it s all wrapped up, Liberty Ventures gets cash and exits TripAdvisor -- without incurring the tax bill a straight sale would trigger. Liberty s shareholders get stock in TripAdvisor as though Liberty had distributed its holding in the site to its own investors. Liberty s investors also don t face taxes on the deal. In Yahoo s case, it would spin off its stake into a new entity, which would borrow money and distribute the cash to the Internet company.  The tax savings sort of gets carved up between the two parties and they each get a chunk,  Option Two: Another option is to follow Warren Buffett s lead, with what s known in tax circles as the cash-rich split. Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and Graham Holdings Co. last March agreed to a deal that lets Buffett s company unload its stake in the former Washington Post Co. while avoiding capital-gains tax. That deal called for Graham to transfer cash and a Miami television business -- combined, roughly equal to Berkshire Hathaway s investment -- into a new subsidiary. Graham then shifts stock in that new unit to Berkshire Hathaway, while Buffett s company moves its Graham stake back to the media company. Economically, it s as though Berkshire Hathaway sold its Graham stake for cash -- and a TV station. But because the deal is structured as an exchange of shares, not a straight-up sale, it gets tax-free treatment. Were Yahoo to follow this route, it would exchange Alibaba shares for a stake in a new unit that would consist mostly of cash. Alibaba would have to shed some assets for Yahoo to get the advantage of such a deal; a cash-only transaction probably would trigger a tax bill. Accounting experts say it shouldn t be difficult to find something to throw in the pot.