Google is gearing up to sell wireless service directly to customers as a mobile virtual network operator (MVNO), by acquiring excess network capacity from Sprint and T-Mobile and reselling it to customers under its own brand. This is the same approach used by Cricket Wireless, MetroPCS, Pure Talk, Republic Wireless and many others in the U.S., but Google s arrangement apparently required special consideration, according to The Wall Street Journal, given the potential threat network providers perceived in giving the search giant and Android maker too much control. Sprint built a volume clause into their agreement with Google, per WSJ, which triggers if the Google wireless service acquires a large number of users and lets Sprint renegotiate the terms of the deal. There s no word on how T-Mobile s arrangement works, but given comments about the U.S. carrier by its parent company Deutsche Telekom, the provider is probably looking for ways to shore up the sustainability of its prolonged  Uncarrier  campaign. More analysis here: What is Google planning  The company hasn't confirmed anything, but reports suggest that Google wants to offer its own brand of cellular service by partnering with Sprint and T-Mobile, the nation's third- and fourth-largest carriers, respectively. This means you'd buy minutes and data from Google, but it would all ride over the other two companies' pipes. Is this like Google Fiber for cellphones  Not quite. With Google Fiber, Google is connecting homes to high-speed fiber-optic infrastructure that, in many places, the search giant laid down itself. But in this case, it doesn't appear that Google is building its own cell towers; it would simply resell Sprint and T-Mobile under the Google banner. Would this shake up the wireless industry  Google probably hopes so, but unlike the wired broadband industry that Google Fiber has been so successful at disrupting, the wireless industry is actually fairly competitive already. You have four major national carriers that are engaged in a major battle over pricing and customers right now. You also have dozens if not hundreds of smaller carriers who operate on the same basis as Google's rumored plan   paying the national carriers a wholesale rate and then repackaging the service into a different product. These piggyback carriers are called MVNOs, short for mobile virtual network operators. Why would Google want to become a wireless provider  If there's one thing driving Google, it's a thirst for your commercial data. Think about all the data generated by your Google searches that gets scooped up and used for advertising. Now think about all the data you generate when you place a phone call: whom you're calling, for how long, what time of day and so on. This information is incredibly personal and can be used to help build a profile of you   which, if you'll recall, is partly why everyone was so outraged when they found out about the National Security Agency's snooping into phone records. Then there's the business information Google can collect about which data plans people find most attractive and how they use those plans. And naturally, all of Google's handsets would likely run on Android, so there's that software integration. 