Box prices IPO - implied valuation of $1.6B, 33% discount to last funding as Box struggles to rise from storage play to platform play: (More here) Box Inc. is set to price its initial public offering at a discount to its latest financing round, as stiff competition overshadows the cloud-storage company s plans to expand into new areas. The IPO comes almost a year after Box, which lets businesses manage, store and have access to data over the Web instead of through onsite computers, first filed to go public. The company s financials in its March prospectus underwhelmed some investors just as deep-pocketed competitors including Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) were entering the fray, and the IPO was delayed. Ten months later, Box s losses have narrowed as revenue surged 70 percent in the most recent quarter, and the company is offering new services that could help it retain and increase its customer base. The company, led by 29-year-old Aaron Levie, is still valuing itself below the level it fetched in a July private-financing round, betting the combination of its turnaround plan and cheaper price will lure buyers.  Investors are either going to have to buy into that story that they can diversify their business, or that this is coming cheap and that there will be consolidation,  said James Gellert, the president and chief executive officer of Rapid Ratings International Inc., which uses quantitative models to grade securities. Box, based in Los Altos, California, is seeking as much as $163 million from the IPO, scheduled to price Jan. 22. It is offering 12.5 million shares for $11 to $13 apiece, according to a Jan. 9 filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Those terms indicate a valuation as high as $1.6 billion, reflecting a 33 percent discount to the $2.4 billion Box was valued at during a private round by investors including TPG Capital and Coatue Management LLC. The market for file sharing and synchronization software is forecast to grow 23 percent a year on average to $2.3 billion in 2018, market researcher IDC said in a report looking at 2013. The enterprise side of the market, where Box fits, is growing slightly faster at 27 percent a year. Box had 14 percent share in the overall market, behind Dropbox Inc. with 27 percent and Microsoft with 17 percent. The challenge for Box, said IDC s Maureen Fleming, is that Microsoft has been dropping prices for its OneDrive and including it free for customers who are signing up to use its Office apps online. That means many corporate customers decide to at least try OneDrive, curbing Box s growth rates. Fleming regards Box as superior to OneDrive for companies looking for cloud-based systems but said product quality doesn t always matter to chief information officers in the market for software. In response to those price wars, Box has created ancillary services on top of storage to differentiate its offerings. They include programs to help companies to build custom applications as well as security features that can be customized. The company also has a consulting arm, which helps customers navigate its services. Said Eli Lilly CIO Mike Meadows:  They are doing the right things and saying the right things,But we haven t come across the use case that would drive us using them in more of platform mode rather than just a storage mode. 