Reddit's Pick for New Ad Leader Shows the Site Is Getting Serious About Mobile Hires Zubair Jandali away from Google. The company hired Zubair Jandali from Google, who started this month as Reddit's first vp of sales. Jandali had been with Google since 2009 when the company bought ad network AdMob, where he also worked. His hiring is yet another sign Reddit is serious about developing a mobile advertising presence. Reddit recently bought Alien Blue, the app that lets readers access Reddit on mobile, to hone a more sophisticated approach to smartphones and tablets. Alien Blue is Reddit's first in-house app. Now, it has a vp of sales with experience in mobile advertising to go along with the product. "Mobile is definitely one big area of investment for the company, so my background certainly plays into that," Jandali said in a phone interview this week. Reddit offers brands two ways to advertise on its site, which reaches 150 million people a month: banners and sponsored headlines. Headlines are the items that users and brands post to Reddit, and users can vote up or down on whether they like them. The user-submitted headlines that accumulate the most positive votes rise to a higher position on the page, but brands pay for top placement. There are over 8,000 "active" user-generated groups on the site called subreddits dedicated to different categories; they can attract fans of brands, movies, science fiction or just about any interest you can imagine. Advertisers can target a subreddit or buy ads on the front page of the site, which gets 50 million views a day, Jandali said. For instance, on Wednesday TBS promoted a headline on reddit.com at the top of the page for the show King of the Nerds. Jandali said visitors who click on sponsored headlines can spend up to five minutes in the posts. Jandali reports to CEO Ellen Pao, who took the role after a shake-up late last year that saw the exit of the former CEO and the return of co-founder Alexis Ohanian to board chairman. The ad sales teams are based in New York, Los Angeles and San Francisco.