Button, a mobile start-up, looks to deep link apps with commerce: It took years for the web to become what it is today: a sprawling, interconnected network of sites endlessly linking back and forth to one another. It will likely take years for the same thing to happen to smartphone applications, which are mostly stuck in silos, disconnected from one another. One New York-based start-up believes it can help speed that process.  The mobile app world is so very fragmented that for users, it makes interactions between apps much more difficult than they should be,  said Michael Jaconi, chief executive of Button, which announced a $12 million round of venture financing on Thursday morning.  Our thesis is, can we connect the mobile economy in a smarter way   Button s value proposition is largely technical: The company wants to create the plumbing behind what s known as deep-linking between apps that make sense to be connected. So for example, if a customer books a table at a restaurant using Resy, a restaurant reservation app, Button could suggest you book a ride to the restaurant using Uber, the ride-hailing service, and link the customer directly to the Uber app to request a ride. That connection may come with a commerce-based incentive   say, a $30 credit toward an Uber ride. Button makes its money based solely on the amount of traffic it drives to its app partners. The idea, Mr. Jaconi said, is similar to what Google did for search more than a decade ago. When a user wants to find something specific, they type in a search query and Google serves up a list of suggestions, along with a series of advertisements. Google has made billions capitalizing on what technologists call the moment of intent   that is, the exact time when a person wants to see a paid advertisement. Button believes it can pinpoint that moment of intent inside apps, a problem that Google has yet to crack.  The future, we think, is one where we re no longer living in a world of typing, but rather in a world of taps,  Mr. Jaconi said.  Using your phone, we ll be able to infer what you want to do next based on your location, the time of day, the context of the other apps you re using.   It s increasingly difficult for app developers to rise above the noise and acquire users, and then re-engage these users over time,  said Chris Moore, a partner at Redpoint Ventures, a venture capital firm that led Button s recent funding round.  Button enables a new channel for user acquisition and engagement.  Button is not the only company taking on deep app links. Facebook wants its deep-linking solution, announced last year, to become the standard for developers. And start-ups like Branch Metrics, URX and Quixey offer different approaches to the same problem as well.