A big day for Microsoft, which unveiled lots more about Windows 10, a new browser named Spartan, and Windows Holographic, an augmented reality headset: the next generation of its operating system, including how it will work across mobile, tablet, desktop and other platforms. The biggest surprise was probably the new HoloLens augmented reality headset Microsoft created, and the Windows Holographic software it built to support said gadget: Microsoft Reveals Windows Holographic, An Augmented Reality User Interface For The World. Microsoft To Bring Xbox One Game Streaming to Windows 10 Devices Later This Year. Microsoft Previews Windows 10, Unveils New Internet Browser: Microsoft Corp. (MSFT), seeking to use the next version of its Windows software to win back consumers and keep business customers happy, gave a detailed look at the new operating system and took the wraps off a revamped Web browser. At an event Wednesday to preview Windows 10, the new iteration of its flagship personal-computer software, Microsoft showed the browser that will succeed Internet Explorer, code-named Project Spartan. The update to Windows, coming later this year, will also bring Cortana, the voice-activated digital assistant, to PC desktops, and will have touch-enabled Office applications such as Word and Excel built-in for smartphones and tablets. Chief Executive Officer Satya Nadella, who took the helm almost a year ago, is trying to resuscitate Windows even as mobile computing continues to surge, PC demand sputters, and Microsoft focuses on versions of its Office applications for rival software platforms. He s also tasked with overhauling the product little more than two years after the last update -- Windows 8 -- failed to jump-start consumer demand while alienating corporate customers. Microsoft also announced Windows Holographic, and a headset with glasses called HoloLens that will enable users to see holograms while tracking a user s voice, motion and surroundings. The glasses will be available  in the Windows 10 timeframe,  said Alex Kipman, a technical fellow in Microsoft s operating system group. The company also showed HoloStudio, software tools for creating holograms, 3-D printing them and sharing them. The new browser showed today lets users annotate websites using a stylus and touch or mouse and keyboard, and then send and share comments through e-mail and social media. The company also announced a new device called the Surface Hub, an 84-inch touch-screen computer designed for workplace collaboration that will run Windows 10.