EBay's disappointing earnings: Q4 revenue $4.92B, Y/Y +9%, net income $936M, Y/Y +10%; will cut 2,400 positions and explore listing its warehousing & logistics unit:  EBay reported earnings of $936 million in the last quarter, a 10 percent increase from the same period a year ago. Overall revenue rose 9 percent, to $4.92 billion, nearly in line with analysts  estimates of $4.93 billion. But other numbers foretell the reasoning behind the company s drastic restructuring. EBay s revenue growth in the company s marketplaces division rose just 1.3 percent, to $2.3 billion, signaling the slowest growth of its auction sites in years. Mr. Swan said the company planned to reinvest in its marketing efforts to promote its auctions arm to encourage repeat business. It will also heavily promote PayPal and Braintree, the payments start-up eBay acquired in 2013, as competition from rivals like Apple, Google and other start-ups begins to heat up. Facing stiff competition and the declining growth of its auctions business, eBay announced a shake-up of the company on Wednesday, saying it planned to cut 2,400 positions, or 7 percent of its global work force.  It s going to get a little bit worse before it gets better,  said Bob Swan, chief financial officer of eBay, citing declines of traffic and repeat customers in the company s online auction business.  Our ecosystem has simply been disrupted.  The layoffs come in advance of a planned spinoff of PayPal, the company s payments arm, set for later this year. EBay said it would also explore a sale or a possible initial public offering of eBay Enterprise, the company s warehouse and logistics unit for third-party eBay sellers. eBay announced an agreement with activist investor Carl Icahn that will give investors a greater say in its PayPal payments unit once it is spun off and said it exploring a sale or public offering of its enterprise unit. The moves could lay the groundwork for a future acquisition of eBay and PayPal by companies looking to gain a foothold in the e-commerce and online payments markets. Wall Street analysts have identified Alibaba (BABA.N), Google (GOOGL.O) and Amazon (AMZN.O) as potential acquirers. EBay also said it plans to cut its workforce by 7 percent, or 2,400 jobs, in the current quarter. EBay shares were up 2.6 percent at $54.75 in after hours trade.