IBM misses on both topline and bottomline, posts 11th straight quarterly revenue declines, shares down 1.8%: International Business Machines Corp posted a new 2015 profit target and quarterly revenue that both missed analysts' estimates, as the one-time world technology leader continues to grapple with its journey from low-margin hardware maker to the new world of cloud computing.Shares of IBM, which is still the world's largest technology services company, but no longer regarded as a leader in innovation, fell 1.8 percent to $154.05 in extended trading. It was the 11th straight quarter that the Armonk, New York-based company has reported falling quarterly revenue, including the effects of currency. It has seen shrinking revenue for three years now as it sheds low-profit businesses such as cash registers, low-end servers and semiconductors and tries to focus on emerging areas such as security software and cloud services. But the new businesses have so far failed to make up for revenue lost to divestitures. Annual revenue fell to $93 billion for 2014, from $107 billion in 2011. The company had no guarantee that it would not fall further. "We're not interested in revenue for revenue's sake," IBM Chief Financial Officer Martin Schroeter told Reuters in a phone interview. "We'll continue to divest if something doesn't fit the model." The struggle to make headway in the new Internet-based technology industry is shared by other longstanding giants. SAP SE, Europe's largest software group, on Tuesday cut key profit forecasts and abandoned a target for higher margins. "IBM as well as other tech stalwarts such as Oracle, SAP, HP and Cisco face major headwinds as they adjust to this new cloud paradigm shift, which coupled with a cloudy IT spending environment have negatively impacted results," said Daniel Ives, an analyst at FBR Capital Markets. IBM is in the midst of a challenging transition, and its fourth-quarter financial results reflected that reality. The technology giant on Tuesday reported quarterly declines in both sales and profits, though its earnings were above Wall Street s diminished expectations. The company said net income in the quarter fell to $5.5 billion, down 11 percent from the same quarter a year ago. The company s operating earnings declined to $5.81 a share, above the average estimate of analysts for $5.41 a share, as compiled by Thomson Reuters. IBM s revenue slid to $24.1 billion, well below the $27.7 billion in the year-earlier quarter. Its quarterly sales were somewhat below Wall Street s consensus forecast of $24.8 billion. In after-hours trading, IBM s stock price slipped $2.90 a share, or about 1.9 percent, to $154.05. The new businesses the company has earmarked for growth   data analytics, cloud, security and mobile apps for corporations   grew at a 16 percent rate in 2014 and contributed $25 billion in revenue, or 27 percent of the company s total sales. These growth businesses, he said, should continue to expand at a double-digit rate. But analysts question how well IBM is doing in achieving its objectives. 