Twitter's makes first India acquisition, buys missed call startup Zipdial for $30-40M; gains a Bangalore office and a way to engage customers offline: Twitter acquired Indian startup Zipdial earlier today, signaling that the social network is doubling down on the fast changing Indian market. But the ramifications of the buy-out don t stop there. What Zipdial does is give companies a way to engage with people without forcing consumers to make calls, send SMS, or go online. All people have to do is send a missed call to a specific number belonging to a brand or service, and that subscribes the individual to relevant updates. It s a little bit like Twitter, except it works mostly offline. And now that Twitter owns Zipdial, that way of operating will be used by the social network in India and a lot more countries.  It can drive growth in other similar emerging markets, like Indonesia or Brazil,  says Rishi Jaitly, Twitter s market director for India and Southeast Asia. While there are no specific plans yet, Jaitly explains to Tech in Asia that Zipdial has experience across Southeast Asia and Africa, so the know-how is ready to roll. What Zipdial offers Twitter, says Jaitly, is a way for people to  connect to digital content offline. Jaitly says those early experiments in conjunction with Zipdial worked well. Those allowed India s phone users to make a missed call to follow certain celebrities on Twitter. This worked entirely offline, by receiving SMS updates, and didn t require the individual to sign up to Twitter.  All kinds of people on all kinds of devices consumed content  through those projects, says Jaitly.  You can expect us to draw lessons from experiments with Zipdial and scale them up,  he adds. The acquisition   Twitter s first in India, and which gives it a Bangalore office   leaves Twitter with a lot moves it can make in emerging markets, which also opens up new revenues streams from brands and media using this  missed call  service to engage with consumers. Although deal size was not disclosed, separate media reports pegged it at $30-40 million. ZipDial s user experience combines SMS, voice, mobile web and access to mobile apps to bridge users from offline to online. The company s core business model, though, was built on leveraging the ubiquitous behaviour of  missed calls  between friends and applying them as an offline call-to-action for brand engagement. For example, through ZipDial, one can engage with a publisher or brand by making a toll-free  missed call  to a designated phone number. The caller will then begin receiving inbound content and further engagement on his/her phone in real time through voice, SMS or an app notification. These interactions are especially appealing in areas where people aren t always connected to data or only access data through intermittent Wi-Fi networks. Additionally, prepaid recharge or top-up (money added to a user s prepaid mobile account) is considered as valuable as currency in emerging markets. That became a foundation for the company s couponing and gratification products.