Rumors have it that Olacabs might be close to raising another $300-500M at $2B: Barely three months after Mumbai-based ANI Technologies Pvt Ltd, the company behind Olacabs, an online marketplace for cabs and car rental services, raised $210 million led by SoftBank, it is back in the market to scoop between $300-500 million more, sources privy to the development told Techcircle.in.  Ola has doubled in size in terms of revenue run rate since its last fundraise when it was valued at $1 billion. It is now seeking twice the valuation,  said one of the sources. The source added that it is likely to rope in at least two new investors including a New York-based fund besides a Hong Kong-based fund house, besides participation from most of its existing investors.  While one of the new investors is a hedge fund, the other is a PE investor,  he said. The proposed fundraising, which would be its Series E or fifth round of institutional funding, would strengthen its position as the most heavily funded player in its business. It would also make it the third most funded new generation tech venture behind Flipkart and Snapdeal. One97 which operates Paytm is in the final stage of scooping a large round. Olacabs had raised $210 million in its Series D round led by Japanese internet and telecom giant SoftBank. Previously, it raised Rs 250 crore ($41.8 million) in its Series C round of funding led by Hong Kong-based hedge fund manager Steadview Capital and Silicon Valley-based Sequoia Capital. Existing investors Matrix Partners India and Tiger Global Management also participated in this round. In November 2013, Olacabs had raised its Series B round of funding led by Matrix Partners India for a big minority stake, with participation from existing investor Tiger Global Management. Although the company had not disclosed the amount at the time, media reports pegged it at $20 million. Prior to that, it had raised Rs 19.2 crore ($3.2 million) from existing investor Tiger Global in July the same year, which was believed to be part of the same round. Back in 2012, the company had raised over $5 million in its Series A funding from Tiger Global. Prior to that, it had raised angel funding from a bunch of individual investors, including Rehan Yar Khan and Anupam Mittal. In the cab booking segment, Ola is seen as the biggest player competing with Google Ventures-backed global major Uber and domestic players such as TaxiForSure (backed by Accel Partners and Bessemer Venture Partners), Savaari, taxiGUIDE and Cabs24X7.