Big-data based lending story #1: Small startups attempt to use borrower profiling models that use behavioral signals to cut default rates on student loans, personal loans: When bankers of the future decide whether to make a loan, they may look to see if potential customers use only capital letters when filling out forms, or at the amount of time they spend online reading terms and conditions   and not so much at credit history. These signals about behavior   picked up by sophisticated software that can scan thousands of pieces of data about online and offline lives   are the focus of a handful of start-ups that are creating new models of lending. No single signal is definitive, but each is a piece in a mosaic, a predictive picture, compiled by collecting an array of information from diverse sources, including household buying habits, bill-paying records and social network connections. It amounts to a digital-age spin on the most basic principle of banking: Know your customer. Yet the technology is so new that the potential is unproved. Also, applying the modern techniques of data science to consumer lending raises questions, especially for regulators who enforce anti-discrimination laws. None of the new start-ups are consumer banks in the full-service sense of taking deposits. Instead, they are focused on transforming the economics of underwriting and the experience of consumer borrowing   and hope to make more loans available at lower cost for millions of Americans. Earnest uses the new tools to make personal loans. Affirm, another start-up, offers alternatives to credit cards for online purchases. And another, ZestFinance, has focused on the relative niche market of payday loans. They all envision consumer finance fueled by abundant information and clever software   the tools of data science, or big data   as opposed to the traditional math of creditworthiness, which relies mainly on a person s credit history. Investors certainly see the potential; money and talent are flowing into this emerging market. Major banks, credit card companies and Internet giants are watching the upstarts and studying their techniques   and watching for the perils. By law, lenders cannot discriminate against loan applicants on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, age or the receipt of public assistance. Big-data lending, though, relies on software algorithms largely working on their own and learning as they go. The danger is that with so much data and so much complexity, an automated system is in control. The software could end up discriminating against certain racial or ethnic groups without being programmed to do so. The data-driven lending start-ups see opportunity. As many as 70 million Americans either have no credit score or a slender paper trail of credit history that depresses their score, according to estimates from the National Consumer Reporting Association, a trade organization. Two groups that typically have thin credit files are immigrants and recent college graduates. Affirm says it is on track to lend $100 million during its first 12 months. More than 100 online merchants are now using its installment loan product, Buy With Affirm. Next up, the company says, will be student loans. Earnest was founded in 2013, and began lending last year. In 2014, its loans reached $8 million, growing gradually. By December the month-to-month growth rate was 70 percent, Mr. Beryl said. The typical Earnest loan is for a few thousand dollars, though they can range up to $30,000. Many of the loans are for relocation expenses and for professional training.