How can Xiaomi be so aggressive with its pricing  A small portfolio and longer average selling time. Many theories have been put forward, including claims that Xiaomi sells at cost and makes money from other services. Hugo Barra, the company s VP of International, lifted the lid on some of the company s secret sauce in an interview with TechCrunch in Beijing last week. Barra explained that Xiaomi is able to make price concessions thanks to the combination of a small portfolio and longer average selling time per device. Importantly, Xiaomi continues to sell older devices (and tweaked versions of them) at reduced prices even after it releases newer models.  A product that stays on the shelf for 18-24 months   which is most of our products   goes through three or four price cuts. The Mi2 and Mi2s are essentially the same device, for example,  Barra explained.  The Mi2/Mi2s were on sale for 26 months. The Redmi 1 was first launched in September 2013, and we just announced the Redmi 2 this month, that s 16 months later.  That s important because the longer runway for devices gives Xiaomi leverage to secure better component deals with its suppliers.  The reason we do these price cuts is because we ve managed to negotiate component cost decreases [with our suppliers] over time, which ends up leaving us with a bigger margin than we d like to have, so we do a price cut,  Barra added.  The vast majority of the components [in our devices] are still the same, so in terms of supply chain and component sourcing, we re on the same supply contracts as Redmi 1, which means we re still getting the same discounts on components,  he explained.  We can continue to ride the cost curve, so the importance of having a very small portfolio is significant   the fact that we only launch a few products each year, and (the fact that) we only have two product families.  There are other factors that contribute to the cost structure, including Xiaomi s lean, online-only marketing focus and its location close to manufacturing plants in China , but the management of components and supply chain partnerships is a crucial element. The company sells its phone using an online-only model in most markets, but it has recently begun testing operator partnerships outside of China. It is running a limited trial with Airtel in India, and has found partners in Taiwan, Malaysia and Singapore. Barra explained that operator partnerships are difficult in markets where the majority of consumers are on pre-paid tariffs   such as India   but it seems clear that Xiaomi is looking into ways to expand its retail footprint. It sold one million devices in its first five months in India using its flash sales model. If it can move beyond that and better meet demand for its phones in India and other emerging markets, it could vastly increase its sales figures in 2015.