Indian e-com marketplace ShopClues raises $100M in Series D led by Tiger Global; despite turbulent history,ShopClues is now valued $450-500M: Clues Network Inc, the US-based parent of Clues Network Pvt Ltd that runs the horizontal e-commerce marketplace ShopClues, has raised $100 million (Rs 620 crore) in Series D funding led by Tiger Global besides two of its existing investors, the firm said on Monday. This values the company at around $450-500 million, a company executive privy to the development said on the condition of anonymity. The money will be used in product development and roping in more merchants on board, the firm said. The company had previously raised money from Helion Venture Partners, Nexus Partners and Beenos (formerly Netprice, a Japanese incubation cum investment group). It scooped $10 million in Series B round in March 2013. Prior to that it had raised around $5 million in Series A. It also raised an undisclosed amount which is believed to be around $15-20 million  in Series C in April-May 2014 from Nexus and Helion.  So far we have brought 100,000 sellers and 10 million products online and the next three years will be focused on bringing 10 million sellers and 1 billion products to the online domain. We will continue to build technologies and services to enable and empower retailers to participate in the e-commerce revolution that is happening in India,  said Sanjay Sethi, CEO and co-founder, ShopClues. Lee Fixel from Tiger Global said,  Shopclues has emerged as the leading marketplace of choice for the millions of small and local businesses seeking to reach mass consumers in India s tier 2 and tier 3 cities. Sanjay, Radhika and the team have done a great job aggregating the country s largest online catalogue of regional and local brands and we are excited to partner with ShopClues as it expands its offerings.  The Gurgaon-based startup was founded by former Wall Street tech analyst Sandeep Aggarwal and a former eBay executive Sanjay Sethi in July 2011. The company went through a tumultuous period over the last two years after Aggarwal (then CEO) was found to have indulged in insider trading in the US in his past job and he later pleaded guilty to the charges. He has disassociated himself with his executive role at ShopClues. His wife Radhika Ghai Aggarwal has taken over more a direct role and is handling marketing at the firm and listed as a co-founder now. Meanwhile, Sethi became CEO after Sandeep Aggarwal was arrested in the US. A few months back ShopClues was again in news when one of the merchants selling through its platform was found to be allegedly selling counterfeit products under the L Oreal brand. The Delhi High Court had restrained it from using the name of L Oreal to sell or supply any goods. Currently, ShopClues claims to be doing 1.5 million transactions per month with 70 per cent of it coming from tier II & III cities. It claims to have 40 million monthly visitors. The firm had clocked net revenues of around Rs 30 crore with net loss of Rs 38 crore for the year ended March 31, 2014.