Online insurance sales are squeezing agents in the US as Google, other tech firms find the insurance sector ripe for disruption: Technology start-ups, and companies from the insurance industry, are introducing websites that sell or promote a range of insurance including auto, homeowners and small commercial policies. These portals, which promise savings by showing consumers many price quotes so they do not have to shop site by site, are putting pressure on insurance agents, who collect 10 percent or more of their policyholders  payments.Online insurance comparison is still a nascent business, and it has yet to make a dent in the armies of intermediaries that are the backbone of the trade. But people in the industry and Silicon Valley say it is only a matter of time. Even Google is getting involved. There are 40,000 agencies in the U.S., and you could absolutely imagine them shrinking by a quarter, and the ones that are left will deal with more complicated needs and more affluent customers,  said Ellen Carney, an analyst who covers insurance for Forrester Research.The idea of selling insurance online is not new. Lately, though, the boring but lucrative trade has been attracting big names. The most recent is Google.Its Google Compare auto insurance site (basically a search engine for auto insurance prices) has been operating in Britain for two years, and Google is working on something similar for the United States. Google is licensed to sell insurance in about half of the states, according to research by Ms. Carney.Google has formed a partnership with Comparenow, an American auto insurance comparison site owned by Admiral Group, a British car insurance company that has operated a European price-comparison site for more than a decade. The venture will give Google access to insurers in Comparenow s network.Admiral Group introduced Comparenow about a year ago. Not long after, Overstock.com, a retailer, started selling auto and other forms of insurance.Then there is Walmart, which does not sell insurance but recently formed a partnership with AutoInsurance.com. The insurer leases space in Walmarts, giving it access to the 140 million people who shop there each week.  A lot of people are waking up to the fact that it s a massive industry, it s old-fashioned, they still use human agents and the commissions are pretty big,  said Jennifer Fitzgerald, the founder and chief executive of PolicyGenius.  It s ripe for   I hate to use the word   disruption.  Insurance is a fat target. In 2013, insurers wrote $481 billion in premiums for property and casualty insurance, which consists of mostly auto, home and commercial insurance, according to the Insurance Information Institute, an industry group. That would place a rough estimate of agents  commissions   including commissions to small-time agents as well as to brokers who sell large commercial policies   at $50 billion. And while it might seem like an odd match for Google, whose projects include driverless cars, delivery drones and a pill to detect cancer, the key to insurance is having lots of data about people s backgrounds and habits, which is perhaps the company s greatest strength.  They have a ton of data on where people drive, how people drive,  said Jon McNeill, chief executive of Enservio, a Needham, Mass., company that makes claims-processing software.  It s the holy grail of being able to price auto insurance correctly. 