"The toll road into China": Customs pre-approval, forex handling part of Alibaba's major push to connect American retailers with Chinese consumers: Anchored by Alipay, the dominant Chinese electronic payments system that works closely with Alibaba and is controlled by its executives, the world's largest Internet retailer is using the calling card of China's consumers to attract U.S. partners, two sources close to the company told Reuters. Long seen as the most potent threat to Amazon.com Inc (AMZN.O) with $300 billion in global sales, the moves add up to a conservative approach to expanding in the United States, contrary to industry speculation that the company may be plotting a direct assault on U.S. soil. At the heart of its push are Alibaba's and Alipay's trial deals to handle Chinese sales, payment and shipping for some of the biggest names in U.S. retail from Neiman Marcus Group [NMRCUS.UL] to Saks Inc. Both confirmed the agreement but would not talk about how the pilots are faring. The Chinese companies will also work with U.S. startup Shoprunner, an online mall for U.S. retailers in which it owns a stake, and retail services provider Borderfree Inc (BRDR.O) to court Chinese consumers. And Alibaba is preparing a marketing campaign to raise awareness among U.S. businesses of its global business-to-business wholesale platform, Alibaba.com, so they can buy and sell to and from global suppliers. Alipay and a logistics-partner network that took years to assemble are central to Alibaba's U.S. effort. Major brands, such as Nike, that have a large physical presence in China already sell directly on Tmall. But Alipay's effort directly connects American merchants with China, without the need for investment in a physical presence. It also allows U.S. retailers and Chinese consumers to avoid difficulties associated with foreign exchange. Chinese consumers pay in yuan; U.S. companies get paid in dollars. Alibaba's and Alipay's program for U.S. companies is called ePass. It includes a customs pre-approval process, a sort of "fast lane" that shaves days off delivery. Daiwa analysts John Choi and Alex Liu call that capability Alibaba's biggest advantage over rivals such as JD.com (JD.O). Alibaba and Alipay have made pilot agreements to handle payments and shipping to China for department stores Neiman, Saks, Macy's Inc (M.N), Macy's Bloomingdale's chain, Ann Taylor, luxury fashion site Gilt, and apparel label Aeropostale (ARO.N), according to Borderfree. The companies declined to comment, although Neiman, Saks and Ann Taylor confirmed the deal. If a Chinese consumer bought a pair of shoes from Saks, for instance, Alipay would handle the financial transaction. The shoes go to a U.S.-based Alipay facility that handles the transfer to China. After clearing customs, a local partner typically would handle final delivery. "They own the toll road into China"