Verizon's "supercookies" - injected into customers web traffic - are being used by an ad targeting firm that works with Google and Facebook on audience targeting: Back in November, privacy experts warned that a new kind of tracking technology called "supercookies" could allow Verizon Wireless customers to be monitored wherever they went on the Internet -- even if they took steps to protect their anonymity. Verizon downplayed those concerns. But now privacy researchers say they've uncovered an advertising company that is using the supercookie to help track the online activities of Verizon Wireless customers. Turn, an online advertising company that works with Google and Facebook, uses a unique identifier Verizon Wireless injects into its customers' Web traffic to collect data that makes it easier for advertisers to place targeted online ads, according to the researchers. Verizon, which developed that supercookie, a string of characters known as "Unique Identifier Header" or UIDH, to use for its own online advertising program, said it was looking into the issue. "We are evaluating how third parties are using the UIDH in this evolving ecosystem and considering any appropriate response," Verizon Wireless spokesperson Adria Tomaszewski told The Post in a statement. Turn says it is "reevaluating" its methods and will suspend the respawning cookie. Verizon began tracking its retail customers -- those not on government or business contracts -- with this supercookie in November 2012. Customers can opt out of having their demographic data shared with Verizon's advertising partners, but they cannot opt out of having the supercookie attached to their Web traffic. Turn's use of the identifier highlights how data about someone's online tracking practices can sometimes be deployed beyond its original intent -- making it harder than ever for consumers to control who has knowledge about their online activities. According to research by Jonathan Mayer, a Stanford graduate student and privacy expert, Turn uses Verizon's identifier as a signal to "re-spawn" or bring back traditional cookies that customers have taken steps to remove. That conclusion was confirmed by ProPublica. Turn's general counsel and chief privacy officer, Max Ochoa, confirmed Mayer's analysis of how its program worked in an interview with The Post.  In a blog post, Ochoa defended the company's practices, arguing that clearing cookies does not necessarily indicate that users did not want to be tracked. Verizon defended the supercookie in the face of criticism, posting a message on its Web site saying "it is unlikely that sites and ad entities will attempt to build customer profiles for online advertising" and noting that the identifier "changes frequently." Researchers and privacy advocates weren't convinced. Unique codes that are associated with consumers online activity often get shared in the larger advertising ecosystem in a process known as "de-anonymizing" which allows Web sites, advertisers and data brokers to piece together more complete portraits of the users they hope to target, experts say. "A tracking technology like this could be used to build a comprehensive list of everywhere an individual is going online," said Moy. That could reveal information about a person's health, religion, family status, sexual preferences, and other highly intimate aspects of your life, Moy said.