GoPro's stock dropped 12% after Apple patent, possibly because past Apple patents foretold gamechangers: Patents are granted all the time, but when Apple gets one, companies often shudder at the prospect that the tech giant may try to muscle into their industry. GoPro's stock dropped 12 percent after the iPhone maker got a patent for a remote control system to take photos. In 2005, Apple filed a patent for "hand held electronic device with multiple touch sensing devices." About two years later, the company unveiled its first iPhone, and people walking down the street never looked up again. In May 2005, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office granted Apple a design patent vaguely titled "electronic device." But the images clearly resembled what would be revealed five years later: the iPad. If there was any doubt that Apple was going to replace Google Maps with its own app on the iPhone, that should have been put to rest in May 2012, when the Cupertino, California, company filed a patent for "system and method for navigation guidance with destination-biased route display." As you might have guessed, about two weeks later, Apple announced at the Worldwide Developers Conference that it was kicking Google's app to the curb in favor of its home-cooked alternative. Before Apple Pay was announced last September, a number of the company's patents had pointed to its interest in providing a mobile payment service. One of them, filed in March 2011, was for a "method and system for payment and/or issuance of credits via a mobile device."  Apple's interest in biometric security is an example where companies in that industry didn't shudder. Instead, they were elated by the attention paid to them by Apple and its rivals. Other phone makers, some of which had rudimentary fingerprint sensors predating the iPhone 5S, were less enthused. Apple showed its interest in incorporating an embedded authentication system back in this patent filed in 2008. In 2013, the iPhone 5S came with a fingerprint scanner on the device's home button.