A wild day in financial markets: Surprise rate cut in India sends Indian stocks soaring, a monetary announcement in Switzerland drives Swiss markets down 10% but sends Euro-area stocks sharply higher:  India s central bank unexpectedly cut its benchmark short-term interest rates Thursday morning by a quarter percentage point as steeply falling prices for oil and other commodities have helped bring inflation under control and allowed the bank to focus more on allowing faster economic growth. The steep fall in world oil prices since the bank s last interest rate review on Dec. 2 has been a big benefit for India, which relies almost entirely on imports for its oil and had been spending roughly $100 billion a year before oil prices plummeted. Switzerland stunned world markets on Thursday by abandoning a crucial part of its effort to hold down the value of its currency, concluding that the strategy was too risky and too costly given the enormous forces pushing in the other direction. The Swiss central bank had been trying to cap the value of its currency, the franc, against the euro, with nervous investors fleeing the market tumult and seeking the relative safety of Switzerland. But the euro s decline has been particularly steep   and the rout may accelerate. The Swiss leaders  abandonment of its target was taken as a bet that easier money from the European Central Bank is on the way, and potentially on a vast scale. The abrupt decision on Thursday sent the value of the Swiss franc soaring, as the country s stocks broadly plummeted. The shares of exporters, in particular, got slammed over fears that the rising currency would weigh on profit.  Words fail me!  Nick Hayek, the chief executive of the Swiss watchmaker the Swatch Group, said in a statement distributed to news media, adding that today s action  is a tsunami: for the export industry and for tourism, and finally for the entire country.  As it scrapped the cap, the Swiss central bank simultaneously cut interest rates, already in negative terrain, hoping to offset some of the damage in foreign exchange markets. It changed the rate on deposits to minus 0.75 percent from minus 0.25 percent, tripling what it costs lenders to park money at the central bank. But that was too little to stop the tide, and the franc jolted 15 percent higher against the euro. Swiss stocks plummeted in value as investors hastened to sell equities priced in francs. Euro-area stocks sharply higher at less competition from Swiss exports.