Intel Q4 Rev $14.7B, + 6% Y/Y, Net Income $3.7B, +39% Y/Y; Losses of $4B on mobile; Stock down mildly on weak outlook: Intel s revenue for all of 2014 was $55.8 billion. However $49 billion of that was in PC and server chips. Mobile devices, considered an important growth area, had revenue of $200 million and losses of $4.2 billion. The transition to new devices matters, because for decades Intel s model for success has been to make enough money to invest before rivals in advanced chip-making facilities, with transistors of almost unimaginably small size. If growth and profitably slip, Intel has big problems. It ended the year with $14.1 billion in cash, despite paying $4 billion in dividends and buying back more than $10 billion in stock. Profit margins increased over the year and the quarter, ending up at 65.4 percent. Intel reported that net income in the fourth quarter rose 39 percent to $3.7 billion, or 74 cents a share, from a year ago. Revenue was $14.7 billion, up 6 percent. Intel projected revenue in 2015 would grow  in the mid-single digits,  an improvement over some recent years. The earnings exceeded expectations, particularly given the lackluster sales of personal computers recently. On Monday, two popular analyst firms issued reports indicating the PC market was essentially flat in the fourth quarter, compared with a year ago. Intel s PC business grew 3 percent in the fourth quarter, compared with a year ago. The server business grew 25 percent, reflecting in part the growing influence of large cloud-computing systems in business and personal computing. Intel s profit was significantly above the expectations of Wall Street analysts, who had predicted it would earn 66 cents a share, according to a survey of analysts by Thomson Reuters. Analysts thought Intel would have revenue of $14.7 billion. That suggests Intel has become relatively more profitable, through sales of products with higher margins or more efficient management. Still, Intel shares were off about 1.1 percent in after-hours trading, mostly on concerns that the company s sales outlook was a bit below some expectations.