How Amazon Listing Requirements for Sellers Evolved in 2014: Below are three tweaks Amazon made to its product listings in 2014 in efforts to improve product visibility and customer experience. If your Amazon listings don t follow suit, you might as well turn your ship around and head home, because your listings will likely be lost in the vast Amazon ocean. Listing Optimization Framework: What does this mean for retailers  Listing quality improves product visibility and conversion. Listings with complete product information improve the shopping experience by making it easier for customers to not only find, but evaluate and purchase your product. Amazon has too many data requirements to list here, but retailers should break down and think about each of their listings using a List Optimization Framework, consisting of core data (product title, image, brand, etc.), categorization data (Item Type keyword) and product-specific data (size, color, style, etc.). Suppressed Listings: What does this mean for retailers  Amazon may already be suppressing some of your products. Regularly review Amazon s Suppressed Products and address missing data. Ask yourself this question: Are all the items you ve listed live on the site  Amazon will suppress product listings that don t meet certain standards, so it s important that you keep a close watch on which products are being suppressed. The Amazon Selling Coach can provide you with an updated list. Listing Visibility: What does this mean for retailers  Amazon will continue to increase listing requirements, so you should clean and expand your data now. Act like a buyer, review the product browsing process on Amazon.com and provide the attributes that are missing. Think of a traditional, brick-and-mortar store. Merchandise is organized logically and strategically so buyers can easily locate products. Amazon accomplishes this same merchandising concept online by using an Item Type keyword value to put your product in the right place. So make sure you re using the right Item Type, so that your products are being cataloged correctly and finding the right shoppers. Data quality often becomes a problem for many retailers as they increase their number of SKUs and have more to keep up with. It helps to use a robust e-commerce platform provider that has the tools to keep your data accurate and up to date. Bottom Line: The massive product selection on Amazon brings with it a massive consumer base. And to retain customers and draw in new ones, Amazon will continue to evolve to better cater to consumers  needs. And this goes well beyond updated listing requirements. As a retailer, if you re not on top of Amazon s evolutions   Prime, Fulfillment by Amazon (FBA), mobile and social, advertising and promotions, and expansion (just to name a few)   you may risk becoming obsolete on the marketplace.