Facebook Ad Clicks Are Shifting to Mobile, so Why Aren't Conversions  Because users still convert on desktops - and as mobile traffic grows, overall conversions fall: 64 percent of Facebook ad clicks occurred on mobile devices during 2014's fourth quarter, just 34 percent of the social media giant's conversions either a sale, download or completed lead-gen form came from smartphones and tablets. This new stat, from Marin Software's quarterly Global Online Advertising Index, means nearly two-thirds of all Facebook ad conversions are happening on desktops even though the digital platform's usage is increasingly skewing toward mobile. The same study found that 39 percent of clicks on paid search ads from sites like Google were via mobile devices, yet 31 percent of the paid search category's purchases came from mobile viewers. So the clicks/conversions ratio clearly favors Google over Facebook. In Q4, Marin found that Facebook's desktop ads got a 1.1 percent conversion rate, while its mobile ads rendered a 0.3 percent conversion rate. Conversely, paid search on Google and other engines achieved a 10.1 percent conversion rate for desktop ads and a 6.6 percent conversion rate for smartphones and tablets. The reasons behind Google's appeal to direct marketers are obvious when looking at those numbers. But Marin CMO Matt Ackley touted Facebook's branding potential. "The disparity points to the value in Facebook advertising being closer to television or print than performance-marketing channels," he said. "Clicks on mobile ads are greater than desktop ads, indicating Facebook mobile ads are a great way for a retailer to build brand awareness and reach consumers on mobile devices. Consumers are not device or channel exclusive. They move from search to social sites." Therein may lie a challenge for Facebook: persuading retailers that their social ads can help search ads perform better. Meanwhile, there's absolutely no doubt that search is going mobile. Marin's data offers further proof, stating that as much as 49 percent of marketers' paid search budget is being manifested via tablet and smartphone. Finally, check out the software player's chart below that shows clickthrough rates for different marketing mediums. 