China's taxi app wars intensify: Alibaba-Backed Taxi App Said to Be Raising $500 Million: A taxi-booking service backed by Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. (BABA), is raising more than $500 million to expand in China, according to a person familiar with the matter. The Hangzhou-based company will issue new shares and receive investment from Alibaba, SoftBank Corp. (9984) and Tiger Global Management LLC, the person said, asking not to be identified because the matter is private. Kuaidi would be valued at more than $2 billion, the person said. Kuaidi competes with Uber Technologies Inc. and Didi Taxi, which is backed by Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700), for the 500 million people in China using mobile phones to access the Internet for services and entertainment. Kuaidi prefers to pursue an initial public offering rather than be bought in a takeover, the company said in July. Kuaidi s taxi booking app attracted 100 million users, who place about 3 million orders a day, according to an e-mailed statement from the company in July, which are the latest figures available. The service has more than 1 million drivers in about 300 cities. Kuaidi also introduced Yi Hao Zhuan Che, a luxury car-booking service, last year to compete with Uber. The San Francisco-based company s valuation reached $40 billion in its latest fundraising round. Background: China s taxi app market is dominated by two apps   Kuaidi Dache and Didi Dache. They both focus on regulated, licensed cabs, and so have avoided much of the legal issues that have beset Uber. In December last year, Didi Dache flagged down US$700 million in funding, making it the second highest funded taxi app in the world, netting more than Lyft, GrabTaxi and Ola. Tencent has put money into Didi Dache, turning taxi apps into a new frontier in the wide-scale battle between Alibaba and Tencent. Last summer Kuaidi Dache ventured into Uber s area by launching a high-end on-demand car service called Kuaidi One. Kuaidi Dache now covers over 1 million taxis in more than 300 cities in China, including Hong Kong.