IBM Introduces z13, a mainframe with potential eCommerce applications: more coverage here IBM has designed the latest version of the mainframe, which is being introduced on Wednesday, with the smartphone in mind. The new mainframe, the z13, has been engineered to cope with the huge volume of data and transactions generated by people using smartphones and tablets. IBM spent $1 billion to develop the z13, and that research generated 500 new patents, including some for encryption intended to improve the security of mobile computing. Much of the new technology, Mr. Rosamilia said, is designed for real-time analysis in business. For example, he said, the mainframe system can allow automated fraud prevention while a purchase is being made on a smartphone. Another example, he said, would be providing shoppers with personalized offers while they are in a store, by tracking their locations and tapping data on their preferences, mainly from their previous buying patterns at that retailer. These real-time applications, according to Donna Dillenberger, a distinguished engineer at IBM s Watson lab, can be done in a mainframe environment. They are not yet possible on clusters of smaller, industry-standard computers, she said. But there are several open-source software projects, like Apache Spark, that focus on real-time data processing across large numbers of computers.TechCrunch reports:  IBM claims this machine has the ability to process 2.5B transactions per day, the equivalent of 100 Cyber Mondays every single day, or so they say. Mike Gilfix, who is director of enterprise mobile at IBM said with its latest model, the company paid particularly close attention to the growing complexity around mobile transactions and designed the system to handle the intricate interplay between systems, while maintaining security with what they are calling  real-time mobile encryption,  and providing high-end analytics on the fly. As an example, he talked about a single eCommerce transaction on a mobile device. When we touch Buy, he explained, it requires a bunch of different systems to communicate including credit card transactions, inventory control and shipping   and they all have to work in tandem. He said when you extrapolate that out into billions of transactions moving across conventional networks, the power of the z13 can eliminate much of the lag. Gilfix suggested that the majority of sales would probably come from existing customers in finance, large retail customers and healthcare, and others who have a large investment in data stored on mainframes already. Still, the company is hoping that the mobile nature of this system will attract buyers who might not have considered a mainframe in the past. One scenario Gilfix suggested is using the z13 as a private cloud and running OpenStack on it, which is certainly an interesting idea.