Education start-ups might finally have their moment in the sun: The education technology business is chock-full of fledgling companies whose innovative ideas have not yet proved effective   or profitable. But that is not slowing investors, who are pouring money into ventures as diverse as free classroom-management apps for teachers and foreign language lessons for adult learners. Venture and equity financing for ed tech companies soared to nearly $1.87 billion last year, up 55 percent from the year before, according to a new report from CB Insights, a venture capital database. The figures are the highest since CB Insights began covering the industry in 2009. Notable financing deals include Pluralsight, a company that provides online training to technology professionals, which raised $135 million; Remind, a free messaging service for teachers to communicate with students and parents, which raised $40 million from venture capital firms including Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers; and Edmodo, an online social network customized for classroom use that is free to individual teachers, which raised $30 million. Education is one of the last industries to be touched by Internet technology, and we re seeing a lot of catch-up going on,  said Betsy Corcoran, the chief executive of EdSurge, an industry news service and research company.  We re starting to see more classical investors   the Kleiner Perkinses, the Andreessen Horowitzes, the Sequoias   pay more attention to the marketplace than before.  The smaller sums going into ed tech illustrate the challenges facing start-ups as they try to persuade public school systems to adopt their novel products. Companies often must navigate local school districts with limited budgets and slow procurement processes. To bypass the bureaucracy, many start-ups are marketing free learning apps and websites directly to teachers in the hopes that their schools might eventually buy enhanced services. Still, it is too early to tell whether that direct-to-consumer  freemium  strategy, as it is often called, will pan out for education software.  There are still a lot of questions around some companies  business models in the sector,  said Matthew Wong, a research analyst at CB Insights.  One of the questions, because the product is free, is:  How are you going to monetize those users     One example is Remind, a popular messaging app that teachers use to send homework reminders to students and share classroom news with parents. Sports team coaches also use the system to send weather updates and schedule changes to their athletes. Word of mouth has propelled Remind from an unknown brand to a nationwide phenomenon. 