Box is finally close to $162M IPO, valulation likely lower than last round of funding: After months of delay, Box is finally close to making its stock market debut. Box, the online data storage provider, disclosed on Friday that it was seeking to raise up to $162.5 million in its initial public offering, as the company embarked on a road show for potential investors. (If demand proved high, the company could sell additional shares and raise up to $186.9 million.) In an amended prospectus, Box said that it planned to price its shares at $11 to $13 a share. At the midpoint of that range, the company would be valued at about $1.4 billion   less than the valuation the company fetched in a private $150 million fund-raising round last summer. Founded in 2005, Box became one of the most prominent independent providers of online storage and file sharing services, particularly for corporations. But the company has been somewhat overshadowed by the much bigger Dropbox, a member of the 11-digit club of start-ups with a $10 billion or more valuation, and rival file-sharing offerings from technology juggernauts like Google. According to its prospectus, Box still hasn t turned a profit. It lost $121.5 million in the nine months ended Oct. 31, a slight narrowing from the same time in the previous year. Sales, however, jumped 80 percent during that same period, to $153.8 million. And Box has asserted that it has won clients like General Electric, DirecTV and AstraZeneca. The company first filed to go public last spring, but put off its I.P.O. plans as a sudden investor distaste for risky technology companies rippled through the markets. Since then, the start-up has waited for a more propitious time to make its stock market debut. Bankers and companies are betting that time is now. Last month, a number of technology start-ups, ranging from the peer-to-peer lending juggernaut Lending Club to the data analysis provider New Relic, enjoyed strong trading debuts. The company is expected to begin trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol  BOX. 