Cash collection can make the difference between life and death for a Saas business: how does one achieve rapid growth in a SaaS business while maintaining capital efficiency  By focusing on the timing of cash collection, not just cash spend. The timing of cash collection can drastically influence the cash consumption of a high-growth, recurring-revenue business significantly beyond what one would intuitively assume. This ultimately has implications on the attractiveness of a business or, at a minimum, the level of shareholder dilution it experiences over time and will become an increasing area of focus as the period of cheap growth capital slowly comes to an end. Let s take two hypothetical early-to-mid stage, high-growth, recurring-revenue SaaS businesses and model them over a five-year period. We assume each company admirably grows annual GAAP revenue from $2M-$6M-$13M-$28M-$53M and enjoys a 100 percent annual renewal rate. Both companies have identical aggregate cost structures that are well over 100 percent of revenue, which is benchmarked on dozens of recent high-growth SaaS businesses we ve evaluated or invested in, or that have gone public. As illustrated below, the two companies thus have identical GAAP bookings, revenues and operating income. The only difference is that the first company, Company M ( monthly ), is like most SaaS companies in that it gets paid cash monthly and ratably over the one year contract period. The second company, Company A ( advance ), collects the full annual contracted value in advance. The difference in cash consumption between the two companies is staggering. Company A would have burned $36 million less cash over the five-year period due to growing deferred revenue balances, to achieve the exact same revenue and bookings trajectory as Company M. This gap in cash consumption can be the difference between success and bankruptcy or moderate versus significant dilution for the founders and early investors. Company M burned more than three times the amount of capital as compared to Company A despite identical bookings, revenue growth and operating expenses. Who can afford to ignore this 