Activist investor urges Yahoo to dispose Alibaba stake in a tax-efficient manner and return money to shareholders - CEO Mayer seeks to spend and expand instead: In the letter, addressed to Mayer from Starboard CEO Jeffrey Smith, the investor said it had become  increasingly concerned  by reports that the Web portal is looking to make major acquisitions. He reiterated that Yahoo should unlock value by monetizing assets -- which include stakes in Alibaba and Yahoo Japan Corp. -- trimming costs and exploring a combination with AOL Inc. Starboard owned less than 1 percent of Yahoo, or about 7.7 million shares, as of September 2014, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.Yahoo s performance has been increasingly in the spotlight since the initial public offering of Chinese e-commerce company Alibaba in September. Yahoo owned about a 24 percent piece of Alibaba, which had driven much of the Silicon Valley company s value. Yahoo reaped a one-time boost of more than $9 billion before taxes from selling some Alibaba shares in the IPO and still retains a valuable stake of about 15 percent of the Chinese company. How Yahoo treats that stake has become a major debate, with options including a cash-rich split-off and a tax-efficient spinoff, among others. Starboard expressed  concerns  that Yahoo has made no announcement for a tax-efficient separation of the equity assets and criticized the possibility of a cash-rich split-off structure for those assets as unnecessarily complex. Starboard has spoken with large Yahoo shareholders, who also prefer a tax-efficient spinoff over a cash-rich split-off. In addition, he said Yahoo  must significantly reduce costs to improve profitability in its core business and should be considering a combination with AOL.   Starboard has a point,  said Brett Harriss, an analyst at Gabelli & Co., who has a buy rating on Yahoo.  There are a lot of acquisitions that haven t generated any financial returns.  He added that there s a concern that Mayer is  not a steward of shareholder capital. 