CES loses its lustre - as smartphones lead, consumer electronics follow:  Today, what every customer expects is for their device to be a platform : Technology fanatics descend every January on Las Vegas for the International CES, a colossal gathering of gadgetry and geekery where some of the world s largest companies show off their best ideas for the future. This year, as in every recent year, the show has been burdened by existential angst, with many tech writers saying they planned to skip an event no longer seen as vital. It has been ages since anything momentous was unveiled at CES. But the travails of CES are a symptom of a larger transformation in tech. The era dominated by consumer electronics   what most of us call gadgets   is in turmoil. One reason is that many devices have been superseded by a single, all-powerful tool: the smartphone. Today, just about everything that once required a small, dedicated electronic device   from cameras to portable game consoles to GPS navigators to music players to too many others to name   works better as an app on a phone. At the same time, smartphones have created new categories of capabilities that have eclipsed gadgets as the tech industry s center of energy and innovation. Photo apps like Instagram, messaging companies like WhatsApp and Snapchat, transportation systems like Uber and Lyft, and Apple Pay, the wireless payment system created by a company best known for its hardware. These services, powered by smart software, use our phones  constant connection to the cloud, and their powers to connect us with one another, to create tech experiences that wouldn t have been possible with the gadgets of yesteryear. None of them would ever have graced a stage at CES, because none of these things are really gadgets; they re way more exciting than that. Here s the important lesson for consumer electronics companies: The future of tech may not be in flashier, more powerful hardware, but instead in services enabled by clever software. The gadgets matter, but only if they allow for software that can create useful, perhaps groundbreaking services that work across all our gadgets.  Today, what every customer expects is for their device to be a platform, 