India tech action: social/messaging product features are going mainstream: CommonFloor acqui-hires a college hyperlocal network, and Quikr adds instant messaging to its mobile app: CommonFloor.com has acqui-hired Bakfy, a hyper local Twitter-like social app for college campuses, from city-based Nativebeta Pvt Ltd in a cash-cum-equity deal. As per the agreement, Bakfy team will join CommonFloor as Entrepreneurs-in-Residence (EIRs), and will work closely with its founders to build products at the intersection of social and mobile. Bakfy is a mobile app that connects different college campus. It acts as a local Twitter for campuses where students can chit-chat about the daily happenings in their campuses or on any other topics. Bakfy puts the entire college under one roof, without any friend requests. It also connects disconnected colleges by providing an option to post to other college campuses. Students can also post anonymously and share stuff, which they can t do on Facebook, WhatsApp, etc. Typical use cases are gossip about day-to-day stuff, information sharing, college events/fests, jobs/internships, share secrets/feelings, share exam notes, etc. Bakfy is live in over 50 colleges across India. The startup was backed by Yogender Chhibber of Zinnov Management Consulting. Quikr has added instant messaging feature to its classifieds site Quikr.com that allows buyers and sellers to connect with each other. Named Quikr Nxt, the feature enables users to chat with multiple users and share images. Offline consumers get a notification so that they can chat once they are back online. Users can safeguard their privacy by opting to not share their mobile numbers. The new feature is also available on its mobile apps. Last September, Quikr had secured $60 million in funding from Tiger Global, Matrix Partners, Nokia Growth Partners, Norwest Venture Partners, Omidyar Network, Warburg Pincus and eBay Inc, besides Swedish investment firm Kinnevik. It competes with the likes of OLX among others.