Start-ups, giants rush to break down  Deep-Linking  walls between Apps and Web: Unlike web pages, mobile apps do not have links. They do not have web addresses. They live in worlds by themselves, largely cut off from one another and the broader Internet. And so it is much harder to share the information found on them. Say you want a hotel for a weekend stay. You could Google for deals or go to a travel site. But wherever you go on the web, you will not find the rooms on HotelTonight, an app that offers steep discounts for last-minute bookings. The only way to get those listings is to use the app. And if you find a few hotels on HotelTonight, you cannot email them to your spouse, because there are no links to send. As people spend more time on their mobile devices and in their apps, their Internet has taken a step backward, becoming more isolated, more disorganized and ultimately harder to use   more like the web before search engines. In tech speak, the problem is known as  deep linking,  the technological hurdle of giving apps some sort of links   those identifying lines of letters, dots and slashes that make up a web address or URL. Though deep linking is a worry for large tech firms, it is a big opportunity for start-ups looking to unseat them.  For web giants, deep linking is a way to protect their businesses by creating mobile versions of things they do on the web. Take Google, which makes money helping people search the web. When people search in apps, it is mostly left out. And while the company has a fast-growing business selling apps through devices that use its Android operating system, that pales in comparison to its business selling search advertising. Google s solution is App Indexing technology, a way to catalog app pages, letting Google s search engine retrieve information from mobile applications as well as from web pages. Twitter has Twitter Cards, which make it possible to go from the Twitter app to another app in the user s phone, rather than from the Twitter app to the web. If the user does not have the app he or she wants installed on a phone, Twitter will ask if the user wants to install it immediately. Facebook is trying to create an open standard of deep links to help apps connect to one another, so, for instance, someone could go from listening to a band in the Spotify app to finding information about the band s live appearances in the Songkick app.