The 10 Most Innovative Digital Ad Products of 2014: (1) Google Shopping Campaigns took on Amazon with Product Listing Ads in early 2014, and then AdSense for Shopping, which shows product ads on third-party websites, in September 2014. (2) Snapchat's sponsored updates and live feed, which crowdsources Snapchat messages at events like the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, now features commercials mixed in with the snaps from everyday users. For instance, Amazon sponsored Black Friday on Snapchat. (3) Instagram's autoplay sponsored videos, and brands from Disney to Electronic Arts to Banana Republic were the first to try them out. The video offering comes on top of sponsored photos, which were first served in 2013. (4) Facebook's Premium Video Ads didn't fully launch until March. These ads are autoplaying videos that are attracting a number of brands such as Macy's during Christmas. Video is the future of Facebook, according to CEO Mark Zuckerberg, and billions of videos from users and marketers are seen everyday.(5) Twitter's app-install ads and e-commerce ads that have Buy Now buttons and video ads with View Now, and the list of potential actions is only growing. (6) Tumblr Sponsored Dot: Tumblr was full of new ad ideas this year, perhaps the most intriguing was the Sponsored Dot (that period at the end of its logo). Now, brands can buy it, dressing their logo as the punctuation mark for special occasions, like Starbucks did on National Coffee Day. (7) Kik Promoted Chats: The paid chats launched this year and let properties like Funny or Die and electronics brands like Skullcandy to message one-on-one with followers who opt in. It's a new kind of marketing built for mobile and messaging, two increasingly relevant areas. (8) Pinterest's Promoted Pins are the platform's first ad product, which launched fully earlier this year after being tested in late 2013. Brands like Kraft, Dell, Home Depot and Walmart are paying to boost their Pins, and there are now self-serve tools, too, for managing marketing campaigns on the platform. (9) Pandora's Sponsored Listening product, which offers users ad-free listening for an hour in return for watching a sponsored clip. In October, Fox helped promote new shows on Pandora with the help of the format. (10) Google Giferator:  shows that Google is allowing advertisers to be more creative on the digital platform. The Giferator was generating dynamic ads in real time that could be highly targeted to select audiences. The ad technology was developed as part of Google's Art, Copy and Code program, where it tries to blend the creative and technical sides of digital advertising. Also, the Giferator let users create their own Gifs, a format that marketers couldn't get enough of this year.