
For Uber, Airbnb, OpenTable, Customer Ratings also help rate the customer: Travelers are often asked to review their hotel, restaurant and car service. But increasingly, it goes both ways. Drivers for Uber and Lyft, for example, rate their passengers from one to five stars at the end of each ride. If a rider receives three stars or fewer, the driver and passenger will not be paired up again. And at OpenTable, the restaurant booking system, customers are banned if they do not show for a reservation too many times. While guest-tracking systems are generally for internal use only, guests who use the Airbnb online booking service to find lodging may find themselves publicly reviewed. This allows potential hosts to see how a guest was perceived by previous ones before agreeing to allow that person to stay in their home. The online dining reservation system OpenTable allows a restaurant to identify guests who booked through the system. Using OpenTable, each restaurant can make private notes about the guests, like indicating table location preference or if they often send their food back. Those notes are not shared with other restaurants.  Overwhelmingly restaurants use the notes feature to enhance the hospitality experience for their guests,  said a spokeswoman, Tiffany Fox. She added that it will ban a customer who fails to show up for a reservation four times in a 12-month period. These are among the ways that sophisticated rating systems can turn on the customer, identifying the best and worst among them. The rating systems are allowing businesses to formalize a longstanding practice: focusing on their best customers. The worst customers  demand too much, complain too much and cost too much,  said Christopher Muller, professor of hospitality management at Boston University. Beyond that, he said, bad clients make employees unhappy. Companies, he said, do better by spending time on their best and most profitable patrons.  It sounds draconian, but not all customers are created equal,  he said.
