How China Built  iPhone City  With Billions in Perks for Apple s Partner: A hidden bounty of benefits for Foxconn s plant in Zhengzhou, the world s biggest iPhone factory, is central to the production of Apple s most profitable product. A vast, boxy customs center acts as a busy island of commerce deep in central China. Government officers, in sharply pressed uniforms, race around a maze of wooden pallets piled high with boxes   counting, weighing, scanning and approving shipments. Unmarked trucks stretch for more than a mile awaiting the next load headed for Beijing, New York, London and dozens of other destinations. The state-of-the-art facility was built several years ago to serve a single global exporter: Apple, now the world s most valuable company and one of China s largest retailers. The well-choreographed customs routine is part of a hidden bounty of perks, tax breaks and subsidies in China that supports the world s biggest iPhone factory, according to confidential government records reviewed by The New York Times, as well as more than 100 interviews with factory workers, logistics handlers, truck drivers, tax specialists and current and former Apple executives. The package of sweeteners and incentives, worth billions of dollars, is central to the production of the iPhone, Apple s best-selling and most profitable product. It all centers on Zhengzhou, a city of six million people in an impoverished region of China. Running at full tilt, the factory here, owned and operated by Apple s manufacturing partner Foxconn, can produce 500,000 iPhones a day. Locals now refer to Zhengzhou as  iPhone City.  The local government has proved instrumental, doling out more than $1.5 billion to Foxconn to build large sections of the factory and nearby employee housing. It paved roads and built power plants. It helps cover continuing energy and transportation costs for the operation. It recruits workers for the assembly line. It pays bonuses to the factory for meeting export targets. All of it in support of iPhone production.  We needed something that could really develop this part of the country,  said Li Ziqiang, a Zhengzhou official.  There s an old saying in China:  If you build the nest, the birds will come.  And now, they re coming.  American officials have long decried China s support of its state-owned companies, calling the subsidies and other aid an unfair competitive advantage in a global marketplace. But the Zhengzhou operation shows the extent of China s effort to entice overseas multinationals to set up production facilities in the country.