Candid, Comedic and Macabre YouTube Stars Feel an Advertising Pinch: Tim Wood sat on a chair inside a house in Hinsdale, N.Y., long rumored to be haunted. He had a Ouija board in his lap and was livestreaming the experience to a group of fans on YouTube.  You re not ever supposed to do Ouija alone, let alone in a place that had an exorcism done in it,  he said to the empty room. As he filmed last month, the comments rolled in, some admiring ( You are one brave ghost hunter ), others fearing for his safety ( Tim, don t summon what u can t banish ). Mr. Wood, 39, has amassed a small but loyal following by making online videos of ghost hunts and paranormal activity, using YouTube to broadcast his work since about 2013. Automatically placed advertisements on his channel, LiveScifi, which has about 470,000 subscribers, have allowed him to turn the videos into a full-time job.But in the wake of a recent advertiser exodus from YouTube, prompted by major brands discovering they were showing up on videos promoting hate speech and terrorism, his earnings have plunged. Mr. Wood, who lives in San Francisco with his fianc e and their infant, said his channel had brought in at least $6,000 a month in revenue last year   which helped pay for travel to site locations, the production of his videos and his other day-to-day bills. In January, his estimated revenue was about $3,900. In February and March, he was alarmed to see that drop below $3,000. Last month, he saw around $1,600 and has been using crowdfunding to cover his shooting costs.In February and March, a slew of advertisers yanked their money from the platform, prompting YouTube to tighten its default settings for where ads appear and to offer new ways for brands to manually and automatically avoid material that violates its guidelines.  Rates are a lot lower and hurting a lot of folks,  said Krishna Subramanian, a founder of Captiv8, a firm that connects brands to social media influencers. His firm recently conducted a survey of 100 YouTube creators and said that channels focused on comedy and gaming experienced the sharpest drops in revenue last month compared with February. At the same time, creators in food, beauty and fashion, and family and parenting had increases. YouTube shares ad revenue with creators, who keep more than half. Some creators are  looking at a video saying,  It got a million views, but I only got $700   I used to get $2,500,   Mr. Subramanian said.