How Jukin Media Built a Viral-Video Empire: Founded in 2009, Jukin is a market leader in a strange new industry that is organizing and monetizing the entropy of web video. A decade ago, when viral phenomena were still opaque and full of mystery, we gazed awe-struck as  Charlie Bit My Finger  rose to fame. Jukin, since then, has systematized the riddle by acquiring clips that meet viral criteria and serving them to YouTube channels and other media outlets that might help induce a spread. The process I was watching was the same one that delivered us Pizza Rat, the video of a rodent dragging a slice down the subway stairs that went viral in 2015. Jukin researchers also discovered Peanut Butter Baby (a toddler covered head to toe in peanut butter) and the  Christopher Columbus of Brooklyn  (a white guy yelling at another white person about gentrification). If you ve seen a funny clip on a late-night show, or  Good Morning America,  or the 11-o -clock news, there are pretty good odds Jukin dug it up. In order to meet this demand for fresh content   a demand created by the process that supplies it   Jukin scales idle browsing to industrial proportions. A researcher, on average, watches 200 clips daily. That s a thousand videos each week, or 50,000 per year, give or take. The company s research is aided by proprietary software called Riff, which generates feeds based on niche viral keywords. Maybe you ve seen 15 or 20 good videos of babies tasting lemons for the first time, or troops surprising mothers at Christmas, or dogs and parakeets becoming unlikely friends. A Jukin researcher has seen these, too, plus all the duds that never made it to your feed. Of those 200 reviewed on a typical day, perhaps three or four may be good enough to license, generally for a fee between $50 and $5,000, and often a revenue split. Researchers contact clip owners by any means necessary   usually through YouTube or Facebook but occasionally over dating sites, or wherever else they can be found. In all, the company has paid out more than $10 million in royalties to video owners.