With LinkedIn, Microsoft Looks to Avoid Past Acquisition Busts: Microsoft announced on Thursday that it had completed its $26.2 billion acquisition of LinkedIn, the social network for professionals. There are ample reasons to be skeptical that the deal, the biggest by far in Microsoft s history, will pay off.  First, the company has not had a great track record with this sort of thing. Two of Microsoft s largest acquisitions   the digital advertising firm aQuantive and the mobile unit of Nokia   were disappointments that eventually led to the company writing off nearly the entire value of the deals, more than $13 billion in all.  Still, the Microsoft of 2016 is different from the unfocused giant of the past that lurched from deal to deal with wild-eyed ambitions of catching rivals like Google and Apple. It has a new chief executive who has made a series of smaller deals that have shown positive results. The company s stock is trading at record highs. A key difference in the way Microsoft has approached the deal is the degree of independence it plans to give LinkedIn. It will not weave LinkedIn, which is based in Silicon Valley, into one of its existing product lines, nor will it treat it like a disconnected business. Mr. Weiner will remain LinkedIn s chief executive.  Neither one of us is a Pollyanna,  said Mr. Weiner.  We both know that acquisition integrations are challenging.  A good model inside Microsoft is the company s $2.5 billion purchase in 2014 of Mojang, the developer behind Minecraft, which has continued to grow under Microsoft s ownership, retaining key employees along the way. Mr. Nadella and Mr. Weiner said they had also looked to Facebook s success in acquiring companies like the photo-sharing service Instagram, while granting them autonomy.  I absolutely think of LinkedIn as our Instagram,  Mr. Nadella said. So determined was Mr. Nadella to get off on the right foot that he emailed an unusual request to Mr. Weiner a few days after the announcement of their deal in June. He asked Mr. Weiner to take the lead on an integration team responsible for merging their two companies, a responsibility that normally falls to an executive at the acquiring company.  I had to read it at least twice,  Mr. Weiner said.  I did a bit of a double take. 