Google Shows Up Late in Crowded AI-Based Digital-Assistant Field: Google unleashed its digital assistant for the first time, arriving late to the intensifying race among the largest technology companies to create a more personal and lucrative way for computers to interact with humans. The Google Assistant uses artificial intelligence tools, such as voice recognition and natural-language processing, to answer questions and satisfy other requests delivered verbally and in formats such as text messages. The first incarnation is as a digital buddy inside Google s new Allo messaging app, which the Alphabet Inc. unit unveiled Wednesday. The assistant will also appear inside Google s Home internet-connected speaker -- expected next month -- in new Android smartphones and in devices such as cars and watches made by other companies, Google executive Nick Fox said. Google s Assistant also performs tasks that get it into e-commerce territory, taking on Amazon s Alexa. Users will be able to book a restaurant through the assistant and buy tickets to a game or event. Anything that involves getting things done more easily will be addressed over time, Fox said. Google has nothing planned on the advertising side yet, he added.Google didn t give the system a name -- a contrast to Siri, Alexa and Cortana. That s in part because Google designed its assistant to learn and evolve to be a different helper depending on the user. You can say, "My favorite sports team is the San Francisco Giants," and it will reply, "OK I will remember that." Later, when you ask, "What s the latest score for my team " it will send the score of the latest Giants baseball game, Fox said. Google is aware of the limits of its AI and is trying not to promise too much from the Assistant, at least early on. It won t automatically insert information into chats between friends on Allo, but will occasionally appear to say it has suggestions and wait to be summoned. It will also stay away from value judgments or sensitive subjects such as violent and adult material. In those cases, it will apologize and say it can t answer, or send web results from Google s search engine.Google s Assistant already knows its rivals. When asked if it is better than Alexa, the system responded diplomatically. "I like Alexa s blue light. Her voice is nice too."