What s Really Missing From the New iPhone: Dazzle Forget about the headphone jack for a second. Sure, it s pretty annoying that Apple s newest iPhones   the 7 and 7 Plus, which were unveiled in San Francisco on Wednesday and will start shipping to customers on Sept. 16   will not include a port for plugging in standard earbuds. But you ll get used to it. The absence of a jack is far from the worst shortcoming in Apple s latest product launch. Instead, it s a symptom of a deeper issue with the new iPhones, part of a problem that afflicts much of the company s product lineup: Apple s aesthetics have grown stale. Apple has squandered its once-commanding lead in hardware and software design. Though the new iPhones include several new features, including water resistance and upgraded cameras, they look pretty much the same as the old ones. The new Apple Watch does too. And as competitors have borrowed and even begun to surpass Apple s best designs, what was iconic about the company s phones, computers, tablets and other products has come to seem generic. This is a subjective assessment, and it s one that Apple rebuts.Yet there are signs that my critique of Apple s designs are shared by others. Industrial designers and tech critics used to swoon over Apple s latest hardware; nowadays you witness less swooning and more bemusement.And while Apple has slowed its design cadence, its rivals have sped up. Last year Samsung remade its lineup of Galaxy smartphones in a new glass-and-metal design that looked practically identical to the iPhone. Then it went further. Over the course of a few months, Samsung put out several design refinements, culminating in the Note 7, a big phone that has been universally praised by critics. With its curved sides and edge-to-edge display, the Note 7 pulls off a neat trick: Though it is physically smaller than Apple s big phone, it actually has a larger screen. So thanks to clever design, you get more from a smaller thing   exactly the sort of advance we once looked to Apple for.