Hampton Creek, Maker of Just Mayo, Is Said to Be Under Inquiry: Hampton Creek, a prominent start-up that is trying to bring tech industry panache to the world of mayonnaise, ranch dressing and other food products, has come under scrutiny by regulators for its business practices. The Securities and Exchange Commission has opened a preliminary inquiry into Hampton Creek, according to a person briefed on the situation who asked not to be named because it had not been announced publicly. The S.E.C. inquiry is a response to a recent report from Bloomberg News that described an organized effort by Hampton Creek to buy large quantities of its Just Mayo product   a mayonnaise that uses a plant-based ingredient instead of eggs   by sending undercover contractors into stores.Bloomberg s report said the product buyback effort, which took place in 2014, made Just Mayo seem more popular than it was, not long before Hampton Creek raised $90 million from venture capitalists and other private investors. The basic details of the program were confirmed by a former Hampton Creek employee, who asked for anonymity because of confidentiality restrictions with his onetime employer. The inquiry may be only the start of tougher questions facing Hampton Creek. The company is believed to be losing significant amounts of money. It is raising up to $220 million from investors, according to a Delaware filing provided by Equidate, which tracks private company shares. It s not uncommon, of course, for start-ups to bleed red ink in their early days. But Hampton Creek, founded in 2011, faces some basic challenges with the manufacturing costs for its products. According to one former employee, in 2014 the company had negative gross margins of about 20 percent on Just Mayo, meaning that the raw cost to the company for every $1 it got in sales was about $1.20. The issue arises from Hampton Creek s use of premium ingredients in its products without charging shoppers the often eye-popping prices attached to such food products. The vegetable oil used in Just Mayo, for example, does not come from genetically modified organism sources, which adds significant cost, according to the former employee. But on Walmart.com on Friday, a 30-ounce jar of Just Mayo was selling for $3.66   32 cents less than a jar of Hellmann s mayonnaise of the same size.