Pinterest Follows Rivals Into Selling Video Ads: Pinterest is finally taking the plunge that many other tech companies already have: It has started selling video advertising. Video ads from brands like Kate Spade and bareMinerals will start appearing in the virtual scrapbook-like Pinterest feed on Wednesday and into the coming weeks, and Pinterest is hopeful that ads from other brands will soon follow. The new ads will show up in a silent, GIF-like format within Pinterest s feed, and will play with sound once clicked. Users will be able to click images, or pins, of featured products next to the videos. That could, for instance, bring them to a brand s website or allow them to buy the product without leaving Pinterest. The move puts the social-bookmarking site in competition with the likes of Facebook, Twitter and Snapchat, as well as large digital publishers, which are all vying for the increasingly large amounts of marketers  digital ad dollars. Pinterest allows people to save links to images and videos, known as pins, to aesthetically pleasing virtual bulletin boards, and to follow the boards created by others. It has become a popular destination for consumers looking to buy goods, particularly in areas like home improvement and cooking, and for the brands looking to reach them. Pinterest says 75 percent of the content people consume on its site comes from businesses. Pinterest, which says it has more than 100 million visitors a month, has largely been absent from conversations about videos, even as such content has boomed in popularity on its site. The company said it had seen a 60 percent increase in the number of videos saved by users in the last year. Last year, Etsy was the website with the greatest number of links from Pinterest s Save button. Now, it is YouTube.  Candidly, the company just in general has underinvested until now in video as a platform,  Jon Kaplan, the head of global sales at Pinterest, said in an interview.  We wanted to make sure it was customized and specific to the way people use our platform. What you re going to see going forward is a very big investment in video. 