Why Did a Chinese Peroxide Company Pay $1 Billion for a Talking Cat  Even by the opaque standards of Chinese mergers and acquisitions, the deal was a head-scratcher. It s hard to see the synergies between a maker of chemical solvents and a digital cat perched over a toilet. And curiously, the buyer, which had recently been renamed Zhejiang Jinke Entertainment Culture Co., had revenue of only $133 million in 2016, according to Bloomberg data pulled from regulatory filings, and its gross profit was $55 million. Jinke won t say where the money to buy Outfit7 came from. Talking Tom is not alone. There s been a recent flurry of oddball pairings between Chinese industrial interests and Western entertainment companies. A real estate magnate in Beijing bought Legendary Entertainment, the movie studio that made the Dark Knight trilogy, for $3.5 billion. A maker of construction materials bought Framestore, the company behind the special effects in the Harry Potter films. Zhejiang Dragon Pipe Manufacturing Co. acquired app developer Entertainment Game Labs. And perhaps strangest of all, Digital Extremes Ltd., which created an alien battle game, and the studio Splash Damage Ltd., which made an offshoot of the Xbox hit Gears of War, were bought by an enormous Chinese poultry processor. According to CODE Advisors LLC, an investment bank that specializes in media and technology deals, 70 percent of all acquisitions of game companies since 2015 have been by Chinese buyers. Samo, for one, isn t stopping to ask questions. A vegan, he s using his windfall to start a food-sustainability foundation.  It s not easy,  he says,  to find buyers for a $1 billion company.  The deal activity can best be understood as a consequence of quirks in the Chinese stock market. In China, industrial companies trade at valuations they d never receive elsewhere in the world. Affan Butt, an investment banker who helped facilitate the sale of Jagex, says some may trade at as much as 100 times their annual earnings more than four times the multiple of General Electric Co. This means they can acquire companies at what is effectively a discount. A target like Jagex is worth more once it s part of a Chinese-listed company, allowing the acquirer to pay prices that appear bafflingly high to the rest of the world. 