Why it makes sense for Walmart to buy Jet.com   even for $3 billion: Walmart missed out on a Marc Lore company once, when Amazon swooped in to beat it to the purchase of Diapers.com s parent company several years back. The giant retailer may not let it happen again. Walmart is in talks to acquire Jet.com, Lore s new startup that has raised more than $800 million in financing in an attempt to build a new online megastore, according to a person familiar with the talks. It is not clear how far along they are. News of the talks was first reported by the Wall Street Journal, which said the tie-up could value Jet at as much as $3 billion. A Walmart spokesman did not respond to a request for comment. A Jet spokesman declined to comment. A $3 billion price tag would be a steep one for Walmart, considering that Jet is largely still unproven and burning more than $20 million a month on advertising alone. A deal would also certainly not be what Lore had in mind when he set out to build a legitimate competitor to Amazon, Walmart and others after his non-compete agreement with the Seattle-based retailer expired two years ago. But it would be a marriage of necessity for both sides, and one that probably makes too much sense not to happen. On the Walmart side, its e-commerce efforts have largely been viewed as a failure in recent years for a retailer of its size and power. Annual revenue for the division is around $14 billion, compared to $99 billion for Amazon, excluding Amazon s AWS cloud computing unit.Five years ago, it would have seemed possible, but unlikely, that Walmart could catch up with Amazon. Today, that notion is laughable.For Lore and Jet, the deal would be something of a shocker. Lore pocketed dozens of millions of dollars when he sold Diapers.com to Amazon so he doesn t exactly need the money. That s one of the reasons his backers believed him when he said his goal was to build a company worth tens of billions. But the hurdles to get there have been significant from the start and perhaps even larger than Lore imagined. Jet only really works long-term as a standalone company if it can convince millions of people to order multiple items at a time to earn discounts; individual product prices aren t typically better than its competitors.