Didi Schools Uber on Doing Business in Cut-Throat Chinese Market: The deal is the culmination of more than a year of take-no-prisoners war between the world s two largest ride-sharing companies, a series of clashes played out in the media and on the dusty streets of hundreds of cities. That battle, waged through massive subsidies on rides, wound up costing Uber $2 billion, the people said. Alarmed, its investors clamored for a ceasefire.In the end, Didi proved too resourceful -- and too well-connected -- for the ride-sharing giant to dethrone. Uber threw in the towel just days after China banned the practice of charging less than the cost of a ride, depriving the U.S. company of a tried-and-true engagement tactic. In a blogpost obtained by Bloomberg before an official announcement, Kalanick portrayed the deal as a merger that strengthens both parties; others, including Grab CEO Anthony Tan, saw it as a humbled Uber taking its ball elsewhere.But Didi proved more creative, and local connections came through. The conflict took an unusual turn as third parties began to get drawn into the mix. In August, Uber complained it had been blocked from WeChat, the popular messaging service run by Didi-backer Tencent. Then Didi recruited allies, forging a four-way alliance with ride-sharing services that compete with Uber, including Lyft Inc. in the U.S., Grab and India s Ola. Didi gained confidence as it entered the new year. From President Jean Liu on down, its executives were determined to deal a knockout blow. Didi began raising more money and its emboldened executives openly declared victory.  We will be the last one standing,  Stephen Zhu, vice president of strategy, said in what proved to be a prescient April address.Recent funding saw Uber s valuation swell to $68 billion and the company said it had access to more than $11 billion on its balance sheet. Didi, said to be valued at close to $28 billion, had more than $10 billion at its disposal. In the end, Didi proved too large an opponent, with backers including some of China s largest government institutions and even Apple Inc. The four-year-old company now handles more than 11 million rides a day and serves about 300 million users across some 400 cities, offering taxis, private cars, ride sharing and test driving.