Amazon s Profits Grow More Than 800 Percent, Lifted by Cloud Services: For the second quarter, which ended June 30, Amazon reported net income of $857 million, or $1.78 a share, up from $92 million, or 19 cents a share, a year ago. Revenue jumped 31 percent to $30.4 billion from $23.19 billion a year ago. Amazon s shares rose more than 2 percent in after-hours trading after the release of its results. For most of its life, Amazon sacrificed profits if it could build another few warehouses to ship orders to customers more quickly or find some other investment to fuel its growth. Now, it cannot avoid showing big profits thanks to the lucrative cloud computing business in which it has improbably become a leader. On Thursday, Amazon reported net income of $857 million in its most recent quarter, the third quarter in a row in which it has shown a record profit. Its net income for those three months was also more than nine times the amount for the same period last year. A big part of what has made Amazon s story as a company so captivating to investors is the single-minded focus of Jeffrey P. Bezos, the company s founder and chief executive, on making big long-term investments. Unlike Google and Facebook, which have highly profitable advertising businesses, Amazon s retail business has operated on thin profit margins that quickly vanish when the company begins spending heavily, pushing it into the red. What is most striking about its recent habit of showing profits is that Amazon has not suddenly become stingy about making investments. In a conference call, Amazon s chief financial officer, Brian Olsavsky, said that the company would open 18 new fulfillment centers   the warehouses from which it processes customer orders   in the third quarter of this year, three times the number it opened in the same period last year. The retail business that Amazon is best known for is growing at a torrid pace even though it is now more than two decades old. The company s North American retail revenue jumped 28 percent as it continued to benefit from a shift in consumer spending to online from offline stores. The company s spending on new warehouses and delivery services has played an important role in helping it gobble up a bigger portion of the money people spend on consumer goods.  They are defying the laws of gravity,  said Gene Munster, an analyst at Piper Jaffray.  It shows their level of market share gains is increasing. 