Verizon to Pay $4.8 Billion for Yahoo s Core Business: the internet is an unforgiving place for yesterday s great idea, and on Sunday, Yahoo reached the end of the line as an independent company. The board of the Silicon Valley company agreed to sell Yahoo s core internet operations and land holdings to Verizon for $4.8 billion, according to people briefed on the matter, who were not authorized to speak about the deal before the planned announcement on Monday morning. After the sale, Yahoo shareholders will be left with about $41 billion in investments in the Chinese e-commerce company Alibaba, as well as Yahoo Japan and a small portfolio of patents.That s a pittance compared with Yahoo s peak value of more than $125 billion, reached in January 2000. Founded in 1994, Yahoo was one of the last independently operated pioneers of the web. Many of those groundbreaking companies, like the maker of the web browser Netscape, never made it to the end of the first dot-com boom. But Yahoo, despite constant management turmoil, kept growing. Started as a directory of websites, the company was soon doing much more, offering searches, email, shopping and news. Those services, which were free to consumers, were supported by advertising displayed on its various pages. For a long time, the model worked. It seemed like every company in America   and across much of the world   wanted to reach people using the new medium, and ad revenue poured in to Yahoo.In the end, the company was done in by Google and Facebook, two younger behemoths that figured out that survival was a continuous process of reinvention and staying ahead of the next big thing. Yahoo, which flirted with buying both companies in their infancy, watched its fortunes sink as users moved on to apps and social networks. Verizon, one of the nation s biggest telecommunications companies, plans to combine Yahoo s operations with AOL, a longtime Yahoo competitor acquired by Verizon last year. The idea is to use Yahoo s vast array of content and its advertising technology to offer more robust services to Verizon customers and advertisers. 