Google Races to Catch Up in Cloud Computing: When it comes to cloud computing, Google is in a very unfamiliar position: seriously behind. Google is chasing Amazon and Microsoft for control of the next generation of business technology, in enormous cloud-computing data centers. Cloud systems are cheap and flexible, and companies are quickly shifting their technologies for that environment. According to analysts at Gartner, the global cloud-computing business will be worth $67 billion by 2020, compared with $23 billion at the end of this year.For Google, a loss in cloud computing would be a rare misstep for a company that revolutionized media with its advertising business, and then made the world s leading smartphone operating system.But it will be an uphill climb. Amazon Web Services, which began its cloud product a decade ago, remains the leader. The company took in $2.6 billion, 9 percent of Amazon s sales, in the first quarter of 2016. Profits from the service made up 56 percent of Amazon s operating income. Those numbers may well be higher when Amazon reports its second-quarter earnings on Wednesday. Microsoft styled itself a cloud company, too, and the company said last week that revenue from Azure, its cloud business, which was founded in 2010, rose 100 percent over the last year. Cloud technology also figures in crucial businesses like Office 365. In contrast, Google Cloud Platform does not even figure in the earnings reports of Alphabet, Google s parent company. That has to sting, since the company owns perhaps the largest network of computers on the planet, spending close to $10 billion a year to handle services like search, Gmail and YouTube.the company said it has used artificial intelligence to cut the power use in its data centers 15 percent, a huge decrease considering how efficient these data factories were already. Power is probably the largest single cost for all three of the cloud companies. Google is almost certain to use its savings to reduce prices, much the way it won in search advertising by figuring out its competitors  costs, then undercutting them. That ability to find energy efficiency may be a powerful tool to sell to others over Google Compute.