Roger Ailes created another big problem for Fox News   the average age of its audience is 68: Roger Ailes, the closest thing in modern U.S. politics to a kingmaker, today stepped down as head of Fox News, the network he founded 20 years ago and turned into a potent political force. James Murdoch and his brother Lachlan, both named by father Rupert to run parent company 21st Century Fox last year, pushed Ailes out on the heels of a sexual harassment suit that led to more allegations of sexual misconduct from female anchors. The brothers saw the situation as a way to remove a longstanding obstacle to their power within the company. A lot of the news reports   most of the key details were first broken by New York Magazine s Gabriel Sherman   centered on how the 76-year-old, a lifelong Republican, clashed with the two brothers politically, personally and as an executive. Ailes is known as a venal operator, specializing in deals with questionable reciprocity. His style was completely at odds with James, a data-driven technocrat, and Lachlan, the earnest Murdoch member. Mostly true. A lesser-known but perhaps more important reason had to do with more practical issues   namely, the business of Fox News itself, according to sources. The average age of Fox News viewers in primetime, the hours that draw the highest ad rates and so are the ones that matter, is 68   a group that advertisers don t pay to reach. In the world of cable news, marketers really only pay for viewers in the 25-54 age range. That means a good chunk of Fox News  audience is worth little to nothing. Fox News still mints money   it accounts for as much as 24 percent of the parent company s yearly profit, or more than $1.5 billion   but a lot of that comes from licensing fees paid by distributors to carry the network, which are only negotiated every few years. Fox News still leads in total viewership and in primetime, but it can t capitalize on a lot of that audience since advertisers don t pay for a lot of these viewers. That weighed on the future value of the network, as James saw it, according to one person familiar with the matter, and as much as Ailes s style and politics were issues for both brothers, the more pressing concern was managing for the future of the network, this source said.