Reddit is still in turmoil: Its been one year since Reddit revolted When the company cracked down on revenge porn and subreddits containing offensive content last summer, the backlash was swift and ultimately led to the ouster of interim CEO Ellen Pao. Although Pao was seen as the driving force behind efforts to make Reddit respectable enough to appeal to advertisers, the company continued its clean-up after her departure, making diverse hires and keeping up with the anti-harassment policy instituted during Pao s tenure. But Reddit, led by CEO Steve Huffman, seems to be struggling with its reform. Over the past six months, over a dozen senior Reddit employees   most of them women and people of color   have left the company. Reddit s efforts to expand its media empire have also faltered. Reddit let go of at least two key members of its team earlier this week, several sources with knowledge of Reddit confirmed to TechCrunch. Among those who lost their jobs are Reddit s vice president of marketing, Celestine Maddy and Reddit s editorial director, Vickie Chang. Also this week, Reddit HR generalist Nicole-Jasmin Clark left the company, according to our sources and confirmed by her LinkedIn, as well as a handful of people from the marketing team. The layoffs follow departures from the network s video team last month, and the slow trickle of employees exiting the company over the past several months. Back in May, Reddit lost its head of community, Kristine Fasnacht, after being in the role for just nine months. In short, female and POC employees have been quietly leaving the company   by way of layoffs and resignations   from many departments, including engineering, marketing, operations and product. Reddit s associate creative director Stephen Greenwood also left the company in June. sources say Reddit s internal turmoil can be traced back to the company s ongoing struggle to leave its antagonistic culture behind. Several employees fended off uncomfortable comments from users and management alike, sources claimed.  Management is terrible, a complete reflection of what the site is like,  one source said. Another source, a former Reddit employee who asked to remain anonymous described a management team with good intentions but poor execution.One individual speculated that the reemergence of the company s drinking culture was to blame for the uncomfortable environment. Under Pao s reign, Reddit tried to eradicate the bro-like amount of alcohol consumption at the office, but that went right out the window following Pao s departure in July 2015.