Microsoft Earnings Are Up, Cushioned by Its Cloud Business: On Tuesday, in its quarterly earnings results, Microsoft offered strong signs that its cloud business was growing quickly. Revenue from Azure, a business Microsoft started to compete in cloud computing with Amazon, the market leader, rose more than 100 percent in the quarter. Revenue from Office 365, a subscription version of the old Office software, rose 54 percent from commercial customers and 19 percent from consumers.Microsoft s chief executive, Satya Nadella, has made cloud computing a priority for the company since becoming chief executive two years ago. Many believed it was a move that Microsoft had long needed to make but was held back by the reluctance of its previous boss, Steven A. Ballmer. There is risk in this transition. The profit margins from renting software in the cloud are not as high as selling a license to customers, and Microsoft investors have always counted on the company to generate exceptional profits. But the cloud business model tends to be more stable   a trade-off for slimmer margins. After Microsoft s misadventures in the smartphone market, it is a necessary trade-off. Last week, the company said it would fail to meet a goal of getting its Windows 10 operating system running on one billion devices before June 2018, largely because of its retrenchment in the mobile phone business.Now the company has laid off most of the thousands of people who joined Microsoft through the deal, written off the value of nearly all of the acquisition and whittled back the number of smartphones it sells. On Tuesday, Microsoft said that its phone revenue had declined 71 percent from a year ago. For years, people have put off purchases of new machines or avoided them entirely in favor of smartphones and tablets. Last week, IDC, the technology research firm, said worldwide PC shipments fell 4.5 percent in the most recent quarter compared with a year earlier.For the quarter ended June 30, Microsoft reported net income of $3.12 billion, or 39 cents a share, compared with a loss of $3.2 billion, or 40 cents a share, during the same period a year earlier. Revenue fell to $20.61 billion, from $22.18 billion a year ago. The decline was partly the result of a $2 billion deferral of revenue related to Windows 10, its latest operating system. Accounting rules require Microsoft to recognize revenue from the software to be recognized in pieces over time. Without the deferral, Microsoft s revenue rose 2 percent from a year earlier to $22.64 billion. The company s shares jumped about 4 percent in after-hours trading following the release of its results.