Yahoo Revenue Falls 15 Percent and Profit Drops 64 Percent: As Yahoo accepted the final bids for its core business on Monday, the internet company revealed just how badly that business was deteriorating. Yahoo said that its revenue in the second quarter fell 15 percent, after excluding accounting adjustments, and its operating profit fell 64 percent. Yahoo also acknowledged that Tumblr   its biggest acquisition under its current chief executive, Marissa Mayer   was now worth only one-third of the $1.1 billion that Yahoo paid for it in 2013. But investors were not focused on the quarterly numbers or Yahoo s vast overpayment for Tumblr. They were far more interested in whether Yahoo s web, email, news and other businesses will finally be sold   and at what price.Yahoo has been conducting a prolonged auction for those assets since February, and final bids were due on Monday. Yahoo s board is expected to evaluate the offers over the next week or two and decide whether to proceed with a transaction that would end Yahoo s 20-year run as an independent, publicly traded company.Analysts expect the final bids to come in at $3.5 billion to $6 billion, including Yahoo s land and patents.The write-off of most of the value of the Tumblr blogging network is emblematic of the failure of Ms. Mayer s strategy to expand Yahoo by luring the mobile young users who drive the business of its chief rivals, Google and Facebook.In the second quarter, Yahoo s revenue was $1.31 billion, up from $1.24 billion in the same quarter a year ago. But the most recent quarter s revenue rose only because of a change in how Yahoo accounts for revenue from its search partnership with Microsoft. Excluding those changes, revenue fell 15 percent, and both search ads and display ads posted significant drops. The company reported a net loss of $440 million, or 46 cents a share, for the quarter, compared with a loss $22 million, or 2 cents a share, in the same quarter a year ago. Excluding the Tumblr write-off and other adjustments, the company s operating profit fell 64 percent. Shares of Yahoo were down slightly in after-hours trading Monday evening.