What is ARM and why is SoftBank spending $32 billion on it  SoftBank s $32 billion deal to buy chip designer ARM had many people scratching their heads Monday. It s not that ARM isn t important in tech. Indeed, its processor designs are used by nearly every chipmaker and, by extension, find a place inside nearly every piece of tech from cellphones to hard drives to networking gear. Rather, it is the fact that the chipmaker is so far removed from SoftBank s other businesses. The Japanese conglomerate has a wide range of tech holdings, including a controlling interest in Sprint, its own mobile carrier business in Japan and investments in Alibaba, OlaCabs and Snapdeal.  SoftBank would have been one of the least likely I thought to buy ARM,  said longtime chip analyst Kevin Krewell of Tirias Research.  They are not in the semiconductor business in any significant way.  Krewell says he suspects that SoftBank looked hard at buying other companies in the chip business and decided that ARM was the strongest play, especially for the very long term.It s worth taking a second to understand how ARM s business works and what it does. ARM doesn t make any products. Not only does it not manufacture chips, it doesn t even design the ones that are eventually sold. Rather, it designs the core engines that get built into others  chips   chips from companies like Qualcomm and Nvidia as well as processors like Apple s A9 and Samsung s Exynos. For its efforts, ARM gets a small license fee from every chip that uses its design. Because it is in so many products, that small license fee adds up to a pretty healthy business. Its 2015 revenue was nearly one billion British pounds. And its sphere of influence is growing, both in terms of the number of chips using its design as well as the kinds of products. Last year nearly 15 billion chips using its designs were sold, up from about six billion in 2010. Cars, servers and internet-of-things devices are all seen as big expansion areas for ARM chips.