ATMs Spit Out Cash Without Cards as Smartphone Apps Take Over:  Forgot your bank card at home  No worries. Many ATMs will soon dispense cash with help from a smartphone and banking app. A growing number of banks are letting consumers arrange withdrawals via their mobile app and pick up the cash at a nearby automated teller machine. Customers authenticate the transaction by scanning a QR code with their phone, entering a one-time security code or tapping their device on the machine. The idea is to help customers who have forgotten their cards or worry about thieves stealing their card data via ATMs. While so-called cardless cash access is only available at about 2,000 of the half a million or so U.S. ATMs in use today, it s expanding rapidly and will be at as many as 95,000 machines by year end, according to payments researcher Crone Consulting LLC. JPMorgan Chase & Co. plans to roll out the feature later this year. Bank of America Corp.said it will extend the technology to 5,000 ATMs by year end. And Wells Fargo & Co. is letting some users of mobile wallets like Apple Pay authenticate through their phone, and expects more than 40 percent of its ATMs to be enabled for this technology by year end. In possibly the largest deployment to date, Payment Alliance International, the nation s largest closely held provider of ATM processing and maintenance services, plans to announce Friday that it will start rolling out the technology in August or September, and plans to have cardless cash access at 25,000 machines in stores and gas stations by the end of 2017.The technology has cut transaction times at ATMs to about 10 seconds from 45 seconds, he said, adding that more than 8 percent of the bank s mobile customers use the service. Smartphone-based ATM transactions have also helped combat skimming, where criminals insert a device in an ATM that steals customers  credentials and lets them make withdrawals later. Last year, the number of ATMs compromised by criminals in the U.S. jumped 546 percent, according to FICO Card Alert Service. Upgrading an ATM with software for such smartphone-based withdrawals cost about $800, Ormseth said.