Brexit Pounds Some Technology Companies: Online marketplace operator EBay sank as much as 8.2 percent on Friday, outpacing declines by the wider U.S. equity market as analysts singled it out for its large exposure to the U.K. and Germany. Chipmaker ARM, based in Cambridge, U.K., gained as much as 6.8 percent on calculations that a weaker British pound will make its repatriated earnings more valuable. The pound sank more than 8 percent against the U.S. currency Friday, to its lowest level in 30 years. The U.S. dollar rose 2 percent against a basket of foreign currencies tracked by Bloomberg. A strong dollar hurts mainly when proceeds from goods and services sold in foreign currencies are exchanged into dollars. That can also make it more expensive to buy U.S. tech products. EBay has the most significant exposure among U.S. internet companies to the U.K. and Europe, according a report by Needham & Co. The disruption caused by Britain s exit from the EU and currency fluctuations could slow cross-border transactions on online marketplaces. "EBay gets 31 percent of revenue from U.K. and Germany, more than Google or Amazon," said Needham analyst Kerry Rice. "This really impacts cross-border trade more than anything. It could shift spending behavior if currency fluctuations make a purchase cost-prohibitive." ARM investors were quick to turn to its own calculations on the impact of currency moves and bet on an increase in profit. The company, which licenses chip technology and designs, gets more than a third of its sales from the U.S., 19 percent from China and another 25 percent from Taiwan and South Korea. Singapore and Switzerland supply it with more revenue than its home market at around 3 percent each, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. According to a company presentation from April, more than 95 percent of ARM s sales are in dollars. A 10 percent move in the value of the pound against the dollar moves earnings per share by 15 percent, it said. That suggests the recent drop in the British currency could boost profit by about 10 percent for the rest of this year.