Line, the biggest tech IPO of the year, struggles to show its growth plan can work: In delaying its IPO by two years, Japanese messaging app company Line Corp bought time to correct weak financial reporting controls, work on its business plan, bolster staffing - and left billions of dollars on the table as its valuation shriveled. Line's initial public offering in the next three weeks is set to raise about $1 billion, which given a global drought of such deals could make it the biggest tech listing this year, but skeptical fund managers point to tepid growth in Line's home market and doubts about its prospects for regional expansion. They also question whether its advertising revenue strategy will work. Fund managers who have watched Line's growth slow in a crowded global messaging app market assess the plan with caution. "I'm not interested," said Yasuo Sakuma, portfolio manager at Bayview Asset Management, which manages 270 billion yen ($2.64 billion). "Its growth outlook is very poor." "Among the four countries that it's focusing on, only Indonesia has big room for growth in use," he added. "Even there, the business outlook is not that easy." Growth in Line's monthly active users has tailed off after tripling across the world over the past three years. Last year, user numbers rose just 13 million to 218 million at the end of March, the IPO filing showed. The company isn't providing much visibility about the future either - it says in its filing that limited operating history makes it "difficult" to forecast future results. "I went to the company's meeting with investors... but nothing moved me," said a fund manager at a major Japanese asset management firm who declined to be named because of company rules against discussing individual shares. "It's not clear how it can make money out of its advertisement business." Line's likely valuation is far less than the $10 billion-$20 billion that was expected by investors when South Korean parent Naver Corp previously talked of a Line listing in 2013-2014, although Line may not have had much choice but to wait.