Clash of Clans May Spur Tencent s Marvel-Like Aspirations: Tencent is spending $8.6 billion to gain control of Supercell Oy -- the Finnish maker of mobile games including Hay Day, Clash Royale and Boom Beach -- from SoftBank Group Corp. To see how that portfolio may fit into Tencent s emerging entertainment empire, look at how the Chinese company leveraged World of Warcraft and League of Legends into global powerhouses.League of Legend s 67 million monthly users helped Tencent earn $9 billion in game revenue last year, and the Tencent-backed movie  Warcraft  is setting box-office records in China since this month s release. Acquiring Supercell reinforces Tencent s entertainment aspirations against Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and Baidu Inc., and comes after Tencent bought the rights to 300-plus Japanese anime franchises in a push to become a worldwide multimedia brand like Marvel, DC and Disney.  Tencent has taken on a strategy to convert good IPs into movies and anime,  said Mark Tanner, founder of China Skinny, a Shanghai-based research and marketing agency.  It s creating a world of superhero characters for entertainment.  Supercell occupied the top spot on researcher App Annie s rankings of publishers fortwo years running. Clash of Clans was named an  essential  app by Apple Inc. and was promoted during the 2015 Super Bowl in a commercial featuring Academy Award-nominee Liam Neeson. Yet the game hasn t been among the 10 top-grossing apps in China and Japan s iOS Store since 2015, which is where Tencent s clout can help.The company s QQ and WeChat instant messaging apps have more than a billion users combined, and it could use those apps to promote Supercell games, Tanner said. That distribution system helped Tencent s mobile-game revenue increase 16 percent to 8.2 billion yuan ($1.3 billion) in the quarter ending March 31, compared with the previous three months. China s mobile gaming market expected to reach 68.8 billion yuan by 2018.  We do see there s an opportunity for IPs of games and movies and video to cross and splice with each other, in the right way,  Martin Lau, Tencent s president, said during a conference call Tuesday.