The unsexiest trillion-dollar startup: Steve Jobs went ballistic when public shipping manifests leaked the existence of the iPhone 3G. That s about the only time something exciting happened in the freight forwarding business. The circulatory system of the global economy is a trillion-dollar industry, yet no one really talks about it, or builds tech for it. That s what makes freight such a massive disruption opportunity for a startup likeFlexport.  Transparency begets data, which begets efficiency. Smarter shipping shrinks the physical world the way faster internet shrinks the digital one. New businesses emerge. High bandwidth connections paved the way for Netflix. Now Flexport could make meatspace merchants as nimble as Amazon. With $26.9 million in funding, Flexport grew the volume of goods it ships by 16X this year. Y Combinator president Paul Graham says  Flexport is one of that small handful of startups that are going to change the world.  Freight might finally be getting the weight of attention it deserves. Stick with me. Anything weighing over 150 kilos can t be sent like a parcel through the postal service. It qualifies as freight, and can require several separately owned vehicles to deliver it across land, sea, or air from its source like a factory to a destination like a retail store. To get the best deal on each leg of the journey and handle the hand-offs through customs, freight forwarding services serve as an organizational logistics layer. They have direct relationships with carriers like truck owners and massive shipping container boats. But like I said, it s an unsexy business, so until recently, freight forwarding was still being done with a jumble of Excel, email, fax, and paper manifests shipped around the world. That made it extremely tough to spot overspending or snags in supply chains. That is, until Flexport indexed all the available carriers into a searchable database in its free software for organizing and tracking shipments. In 2016 it s moved freight to or from 64 countries for over 700 clients like Ring and Le Tote, with a $1.5 billion annual run-rate of merchandise value shipped. There s 2.4 million toys and 412,000 pieces of glassware currently in transit on the Flexport platform. Its investors include First Round, Founders Fund, Felicis, GV (Google Ventures), Box Group, Bloomberg Beta, and Ashton Kutcher. That s quite an ascent considering Petersen admits  I didn t learn what the term  freight forwarder  meant until a year into starting the business. 