Japan s Line Corp. is headed for what could be the biggest initial public offering for a technology company this year, including a major pitch to American investors. The company behind one of Asia s most popular messaging apps plans to go public in Tokyo and New York in mid-to-late July, with a goal of raising between $1 billion and $2 billion at a valuation of $5 billion to $6 billion, according to people familiar with the matter. The Tokyo-based company aims to get about half the money from U.S. investors as it plots a long-term expansion there after pushing further into Southeast Asia, said the people, asking not to be identified because the matter is private. Line is already profitable and it will make that a focus for investors when it begins a roadshow toward the end of this month, according to one of the people. If it reaches its goals, Line would be this year s biggest tech offering globally, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, providing a rare bright spot for the moribund market for listings. No business has raised more than $150 million in a technology IPO in 2016, even though more than 160 private companies are currently valued at $1 billion or more. The market debut would come two years after Line filed an application to list in Tokyo in July 2014. That offering valued the company at 1 trillion yen ($9.2 billion), people familiar with the situation said at the time. A deal didn t materialize and the company, controlled by South Korea s Naver Corp., later replaced its chief executive officer. Naver shares, which aren t trading on Monday due to a national holiday, are up 7.4 percent this year.The lower valuation for next month s expected listing reflects the company s slowing user growth and a cooling in technology valuations and listings. Global tech companies raised about $900 million in the first quarter of this year, down from $6.5 billion during same period in 2014 and $2.8 billion in the first quarter of last year, according to Ernst & Young LLP. This year s biggest tech listing is Australia s WiseTech Global Ltd., a logistics software company that raised about $130 million in April, according to Bloomberg data.