Uber Turns to Saudi Arabia for $3.5 Billion Cash Infusion: In its quest to build a global empire, Uber has turned to the Middle East for its biggest infusion of cash from a single investor. Uber said on Wednesday that it had raised $3.5 billion from Saudi Arabia s Public Investment Fund, the kingdom s main investment fund. The money was part of the ride-hailing giant s most recent financing round and continued to value the company at $62.5 billion. The investment does not cash out any of Uber s existing investors.Uber, which has viewed the Middle East as an important area in its expansion, said the investment further aligned the company with Saudi Arabia as the kingdom planned to transform its economy, reducing its dependence on oil and improving employment. The investment from Saudi Arabia is one of the biggest single investments collected by the technology world s top privately held companies. Uber, whose valuation makes it Silicon Valley s most valuable private business, has collected billions at a rapid clip over the last three years. Uber has drawn from a wide variety of investors, including traditional venture capital firms, mutual fund giants like BlackRock and wealthy clients of firms like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley. Other sovereign wealth funds like that of Qatar have also invested. Other smaller tech companies have not fared as well in raising money over the last several months. Some so-called unicorns, the term used to refer to businesses valued at more than $1 billion, have struggled to collect new investments, and some, like Jawbone, have had to raise money at lower valuations. Uber is racing to defend its territory   which covers 460 cities in more than 69 countries   against incumbents in other regions like Southeast Asia and Europe. China, in particular, is a difficult battleground, as Uber is spending millions in a subsidy war with Didi Chuxing, the dominant ride-hailing start-up in the country. Both companies have made no indications that they will back down. Though Uber dominates the American market for ride-hailing, it has increasingly seen overseas markets as crucial to its growth. Among Uber s increasingly important overseas markets is the Middle East, where the company has already said it plans to invest $250 million. The service operates in 15 cities and nine countries in the region, including Saudi Arabia.