Hewlett Packard Enterprise will spin off its troubled services business in an $8.5 billion deal: Six months after the Silicon Valley stalwart Hewlett-Packard split into two companies, one half announced a surprise plan to split yet again. Hewlett Packard Enterprise said it will spin off its long-troubled services unit and merge it with the IT services firm CSC in a deal worth about $8.5 billion. The complex deal, in which HPE will combine its $20 billion Enterprise Services unit   accounting for more than one third of HPE's 2015 revenue   with CSC into a combined company of which HPE shareholders will end up owning about half. The total consideration of the deal includes the creation of $4.5 billion of new shares, a cash dividend worth $1.5 billion, and the transfer of about $2.5 billion in debt and other liabilities off HPE's books and into the new company. HPE also expects to trim its operating costs by about $1 billion as a result of the spinoff. What will remain at HPE is a leaner $32 billion company that leads the world in sales of servers, the computers that are stacked together in data center racks that power the Internet. It competes with networking giant Cisco Systems in selling gear for corporate networks, with EMC in data storage gear, and also sports a small software business that did about $3.6 billion in sales last year. The new company   HPE and CSC are calling it Spinco for now   will be a pure player in the low-margin, IT outsourcing market that had been a shrinking, expensive weight around the old HP's neck during the time it was struggling to bounce back. Revenue in the unit has declined for several years, during years that its customers went through wrenching changes in how they purchase and consume technology. The move will also unwind what in hindsight has turned out to be one of the worst acquisitions in the old HP's history, the $14 billion acquisition of the IT services firm EDS, consummated in 2008 under yet another prior HP CEO, Mark Hurd, now the CEO of Oracle.