Amazon no longer offers price match refunds on anything but TVs: Amazon has quietly ended its price protection policy on all products except for televisions. The change to the company s policy comes at a time when a handful of startups have launched to help consumers automate the process of requesting refunds when prices change on online sites, including Amazon and dozens of other e-commerce stores. For example, newcomer Earny recently debuted a mobile app that helps consumers get their money back on purchases after price drops. Earny co-founder Oded Vakrat says that, so far, around 50 percent of the refund requests the app handled were for Amazon purchases. Earny also competes with Paribus, which offers a similar service both online and on mobile. Meanwhile, older sites like camelcamelcamel allow consumers to track Amazon price drops and receive alerts. Prior to this policy change, Amazon s price protection policy was already one of the least friendly to consumers, as it used to provide seven days of price matching on price drops. That means if you purchased an item from Amazon which the company later marked down, you could request a refund. However, unlike many stores, Amazon only matched its own prices for items, not competitors  pricing   with the exception of TVs and cell phones. In comparison, other stores have more pro-consumer policies, including Best Buy, which provides price matching during its return and exchange period (15 days is standard) and Walmart, which offers 90 days of protection, for example. As for how this change will impact startups like Earny and Paribus  Vakrat optimistically referred to this blow as a  great opportunity  to show why consumers need startups like Earny to have their back. Amazon insists that its price policy has not changed   it says that its prices are dynamic and that its customer service agents have made exceptions in the past, but that wasn t the rule. In addition, Amazon wants to caution its customers that sharing their credentials with third-parties puts their accounts at risk.