Selling Uber Shares May Be Tougher Than You Think: SharesPost Inc., a broker of private technology stocks, approached investors with what seemed like an alluring offer: a potential investment in a fund that would hold Uber Technologies Inc. shares. In exchange for exposure to the high-flying ride-hailing startup, they were asked to part with at least $100,000 each and agree to hold the stake until the company goes public or gets acquired, with no vote in business decisions or visibility into its operations or finances. But SharesPost said it called off the proposed deal. The plan was to purchase as much as $10 million in preferred shares from Uber s most recent round of financing and package them in an investment fund to be sold at a premium, according to offering documents obtained by Bloomberg. SharesPost said it wouldn t pursue the transaction, citing a  lack of investor interest.   It became clear that the minimum funds would not be collected for this deal, and as a result, the sales team began to inform interested clients of this fact,  Greg Berardi, a spokesman for SharesPost, wrote in an e-mail. The erstwhile offering shows the complexity of giving investors the chance to gain shares in a startup that wants to tightly control who gets a sliver, no matter how small. Like many startups, Uber limits sales of its shares. Such transactions can distort a company's valuation, leave control in the hands of unknown investors and result in tax liabilities for the company, its employees and other shareholders. Uber declined to comment on the SharesPost proposal, but a spokeswoman said when Uber learns of potential unauthorized shares on the market, the company contacts the people involved. SharesPost's role in share sales has drawn regulatory scrutiny. The broker settled with the Securities and Exchange Commission in 2012 to resolve claims that the online marketplace for private-company shares acted as an unregistered broker. SharesPost paid $80,000 and Greg Brogger, then the company s president, paid $20,000, without admitting wrongdoing. Brogger is now SharesPost s chief executive officer and chairman, and the company is registered with the SEC. SharesPost's spokesman called the 2012 settlement  completely irrelevant to a 2016 fund that never got off the ground.  Speaking to a Silicon Valley audience in March, SEC Chair Mary Jo White cautioned that secondary transactions could amplify  errors or misconceptions in valuation.  She highlighted the lack of transparency in such deals as cause for concern. For the proposed Uber transaction, the documents said a fund managed by a member of SharesPost s board of directors would buy the shares at a 2 percent premium to their price in last year s funding round, which valued the company at $62.5 billion, and then resell them for 5 percent more. It s unclear where the SharesPost fund would acquire the Uber stake from. VC Experts, a private-market research firm, estimated that the transaction would give Uber an implied valuation of more the $70 billion.