Warren Buffett Stake Suggests Apple Is All Grown Up: With this week s imprimatur from the legendary investor Warren Buffett, it should now be official: Apple, the world s largest company by market capitalization and a symbol of American technological innovation, is a  value  stock. That may prove to be a decidedly mixed blessing. Mr. Buffett is the world s most prominent and successful proponent of value investing   an approach that seeks stocks that are undervalued and sell for less than their  intrinsic value,  as Benjamin Graham put it his 1949 classic  The Intelligent Investor.  Mr. Buffett credits Mr. Graham with shaping his own approach to investing. So value investors took notice when Mr. Buffett s holding company,Berkshire Hathaway, disclosed it had invested $1 billion in Apple stock during the last quarter.  We ve just looked at it again,  said Bill Smead, who manages the Smead Value Fund, one of the most successful large-cap value mutual funds over the last five years, according to Morningstar.  Anybody that discounts the thinking at Berkshire Hathaway does so at their peril, in my opinion.  Value stocks are typically unpopular among many investors, their shares often battered by disappointing short-term revenue and earnings results. They usually trade at very low price-to-earnings ratios, a common valuation measure. Nonetheless, some academic studies have suggested that over time, they outperform other stocks, in part because expectations are so low. Today there are numerous value investors, value mutual funds and value exchange-traded funds that pursue variations of the strategy, many of them probably now considering adding Apple to their portfolios, if they haven t already. Apple  is going to attract more value investors,  said Toni Sacconaghi, a senior analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein who covers Apple.  They re looking for beaten-down stocks with negative sentiment. Apple has traded below a market multiple for years and sentiment has become increasingly pessimistic, especially over the past month. 