This $5 Billion Software Company Has No Sales Staff: Atlassian sold $320 million worth of business software last year without a single sales employee. Everyone else in the industry noticed.: Atlassian, which makes popular project-management and chat apps such as Jira and HipChat, doesn t run on sales quotas and end-of-quarter discounts. In fact, its sales team doesn t pitch products to anyone, because Atlassian doesn t have a sales team. Initially an anomaly in the world of business software, the Australian company has become a beacon for other businesses counting on word of mouth to build market share.  Customers don t want to call a salesperson if they don t have to,  says Scott Farquhar, Atlassian s co-chief executive officer.  They d much rather be able to find the answers on the website.  The way technology companies sell software has changed dramatically in the past decade. The availability of open source alternatives has pushed traditional brands and rising challengers to offer more free trials, free basic versions of their software with paid upgrades, and online promotions. Incumbents such as IBM, Oracle, and Hewlett Packard Enterprise, which employ thousands of commissioned salespeople, are acquiring open source or cloud companies that sell differently, says Laurie Wurster, an analyst at researcher Gartner. Slack, Dropbox, and GitHub are among the companies trying to attract corporate clients with small-bore efforts that rely largely on good reviews. The idea is to distribute products to individuals or small groups at potential customers big and small and hope interest spreads upstairs. So far, though, Atlassian remains the most extreme example of this model. It s a 14-year-old company, valued at $5 billion since going public in December, without a single salesperson on the payroll. More than 80 Fortune 100 companies use Atlassian s software, and venture capitalists and peers often talk about trying to follow, at least partly, its sales strategy.Atlassian s roots lie in Sydney s barren tech scene. It was kept aloft early on not by venture capital, but by the founders  credit cards, meaning it didn t have impatient investors to answer to.  I don t think their success is replicable,  says Tomasz Tunguz, a partner at Redpoint Ventures.