For online lenders, it s suddenly touch-and-go:  A year ago, privately held online lenders like Prosper, SoFiand Avant looked all but certain to go public at the same unicorn valuations their venture investors had assigned them   if not higher. They were seemingly reshaping the student, consumer and small business lending business. The market they re chasing is enormous: The U.S. consumer lending market is a $3.5 trillion business, and 22 of  the largest online marketplace platforms originated just more than $5 billion of unsecured consumer credit in 2014 and more than $10 billion in 2015. They also talked a big game. When SoFi raised a whopping $1 billion from Softbank last year, CEO Michael Cagney told Bloomberg:  I m looking at over $1 trillion of market cap from the banks, and I think it s all vulnerable.  Fast forward to today, and it s online lenders that suddenly look like sitting ducks. In an SEC filing yesterday, Lending Club, which announced the surprise departure of its founder and CEO last Monday, revealed that investors who  contributed a significant amount of funding  for loans are now examining that performance  or are otherwise reluctant to invest.  For many casual observers in Silicon Valley, the first signs of trouble in the online lending category emerged in late April, when the WSJ reported that Avant made $514 million worth of new loans in the U.S. in the first quarter, a 27 percent drop from the fourth quarter of 2015. Then, two weeks ago, Prosper confirmed that it planned to cut roughly 28 percent of its staff in response to falling loan volume. And Prosper s news came just a day after OnDeck Capital said its own first-quarter losses had more than doubled as demand for its loans began to nosedive. Of course, the kicker came last week, when Lending Club CEO Renaud LaPlanche resigned following an internal audit that turned up $22 million in loans that were sold to Jefferies yet didn t meet the investment bank s criteria. Smartly, some players are already looking to reimagine themselves as broader financial outfits. For example, SoFi, which began as a way for students from top universities to refinance their debt, has since branched into personal loans, wealth management and mortgages. It also said last month that it s hoping to drum up more investor demand for the debt it originates by starting a hedge fund that will buy its own loans. Baker expects that to survive and thrive, more online lenders may need to remodel themselves into the institutions they vowed to replace, either by becoming banks, buying or selling to banks or else striking up partnerships with banks. OnDeck and JPMorgan made one such pact. Last month, JPMorgan quietly began offering online loans to its existing small-business customers using OnDeck s technology. Indeed, there is a silver lining, and it s that huge market opportunity. The trick for online lenders will be finding new ways to pursue it while remaining viable businesses.