Facebook, Facing Bias Claims, Shows How Editors and Algorithms Guide News:  Facebook, the largest social media network, published internal editorial guidelines on Thursday, the company s latest attempt to rebut accusations that it is politically biased in the news content it shows on the pages of its 1.6 billion users. The 28-page document details how both editors and computer algorithms play roles in the process of picking what should appear in the  Trending Topics  section of users  Facebook pages. Facebook describes a list of processes it uses to display some of the most popular content across the network, including relying on algorithms to detect up-and-coming news trends as well as a team of editors who, much like a newsroom, direct how those topics are presented and decide what should be displayed to people who regularly use the service. As the guidelines make clear, at practically every point in the process, a human editor is given the leeway to exercise his or her editorial influence. The document was released just days after a report on the tech news siteGizmodo said Facebook editors had intentionally  suppressed  news topics from conservative publications trending across the network. The report also said editors were able to artificially inflate the importance of other topics by  injecting  them into the Trending section of users  Facebook pages. Since those claims surfaced, Facebook has been questioned by news sites across the political spectrum and by legislators in Washington. On Thursday, critics urged the company to consider the biases of its editors.  As long as Facebook is hiring editors who lean left politically, those stories are going to get preferential treatment,  Erick Erickson, former editor in chief of the conservative website RedState and founder of another conservative site called The Resurgent, said in an email.  I d hope that Facebook would take care to consider all views and all news.  The company has continued to deny accusations of political bias and pointed to editorial rules that discourage Trending Topics staff members from taking one viewpoint or another.