As Lending Club Stumbles, Its Entire Industry Faces Skepticism: Renaud Laplanche and his crew steered a 105-foot racing boat through New York Harbor one day last spring, its towering sails ripping across the water at 30 knots. An accomplished sailor and founder of Lending Club, Mr. Laplanche was hosting executives from hedge funds, Goldman Sachs and other banks   part of his effort to win over Wall Street on his plans to upend traditional banking with a faster, more democratic form of lending. He already had endorsements from Lawrence H. Summers, the former Treasury secretary, and John Mack, the former chief of Morgan Stanley, who joined his board. At Lending Club s initial public offering in December 2014, the company was valued at over $8 billion. But on Monday, Lending Club announced that Mr. Laplanche had resigned after an internal investigation found improprieties in its lending process, including the altering of millions of dollars  worth of loans. The company s stock price, already reeling in recent months, fell 34 percent. The company s woes are part of a broader reckoning in the online money-lending industry. Last week, Prosper, another online lender that focuses on consumers, laid off more than a quarter of its work force, and the chief executive said he was forgoing his salary for the year. Marketplace lenders like Lending Club have created easy-to-use websites that match consumers and small businesses, hoping to borrow a few thousand dollars, with individuals or Wall Street investors looking to lend money. Freed from the costs of brick-and-mortar branches and federal regulations requiring that they reserve money against their loans, marketplace lenders have been able to grow quickly and with fewer expenses. The process is almost entirely online, with loans approved in days rather than the weeks a traditional bank might take. While marketplace loans account for less than 1 percent of the consumer loans in the United States, a recent report by the investment bank Jefferies said that in some segments   like installment loans   the new lending companies account for more than 10 percent of the market. But in the first quarter, lenders like Lending Club, Prosper and OnDeck Capital had difficulty convincing investors that their business models are sound. Wall Street s waning demand for loans exposed the Achilles  heel of marketplace lending. Unlike traditional banks that use their deposits to fund loans, the marketplace companies discovered how fleeting their funding sources can be.