Zenefits Was the Perfect Startup. Then It Self-Disrupted: Zenefits makes online software that automates health insurance, payroll, and other essential office drudgery kind of a human resources version of TurboTax. It s not a sexy idea, but with 6 million small businesses in the U.S., it s enormously useful. The company was founded in 2013 by Parker Conrad, who realized he could streamline small businesses  managerial needs, saving them hundreds of hours of mind-numbing paperwork not to mention the cost of staffing an HR department by putting everything online. Conrad was known to be a little frenzied and disorganized but fiercely intelligent.  From an investment philosophy   we look for the magnitude of the genius, as opposed to the lack of issues,  says Andreessen s founding partner Ben Horowitz.  And in a way, [Conrad] was like the prototype.  Conrad had no background in health insurance but quickly learned the intricacies of the business as well as any veteran.  If you re an insurance broker,  he said at the TechCrunch Disrupt conference in 2013,  we re going to drink your milkshake.   Then In California, they found, some of the sales team used Conrad s macro to systematically cheat on the state s training course, which included a section on ethics.  As far as a company doing what Zenefits has done, I don t know that we have seen this before,  says Nancy Kincaid, press secretary for the California Department of Insurance, which has also opened an investigation. In March, Massachusetts  division of insurance opened a third. Zenefits confirms that other states have since followed but won t say which ones or even how many. Sacks became CEO and is guiding Zenefits through its crisis cleanup. He has banned alcohol at the office and changed the company motto from  Ready. Fire. Aim.  to  Operate With Integrity.  In February the company laid off 250 employees, including the enterprise team. Sales Vice President Blond, Semaan s boss, and any executive or manager known to have helped disseminate the macro are also gone. Zenefits says it has self-reported the findings of its internal investigation to all 50 states and is working with those that have opened formal inquiries. Fidelity Investments, which owns a stake, has slashed its valuation of Zenefits from $4.5 billion to less than $2 billion. There are rows of empty desks at the San Francisco office; the company plans to downsize from four floors to three. The Star Wars-themed conference rooms will soon be renamed after inspirational entrepreneurs. Kegs have been replaced with cold-brew coffee. The stairwells are condom-free. Zenefits might also survive for the one reason that made its product so appealing to business owners in the first place: Shopping for health insurance remains really frustrating. The company says it now has 20,000 accounts.  As long as their problems don t affect our company, we ll stay,  says Todd Harmond, vice president for finance and operations of the e-book service Scribd, which uses Zenefits to offer Kaiser Permanente and Anthem health insurance plans to its 85 employees.  Unless something else goes really wrong with Zenefits, we ll stick with them for a while,  says BlogMutt s Yates.  It s too much of a hassle to switch. 