Companies are betting on a new way to protect your identity: the selfie: The selfie is about to get serious. Already ubiquitous at parties and for capturing Instagram-worthy landscapes, the act of raising a phone to your face and finding the perfect photo angle could take on a whole new role in people s finances. Some banks, tax agencies and tech companies are making the selfie an integral step for people checking their bank accounts, shopping online and filing tax returns. Forced to find creative ways to guard against the rising threat of identity theft, a growing number of companies are moving from a system that tests people on what they know, such as a password. Now they want to ask consumers to provide evidence of something that can t easily be changed or copied: their face.  A photo also can serve as a way for consumers to offer proof that it was indeed them   and not an imposter    who made that purchase or submitted that form. For instance, MasterCard plans to roll out a service nicknamed  Selfie Pay  this summer through its member banks. Through the program, consumers would shop online as usual and after checking out, they would confirm the purchase by taking a selfie with a MasterCard mobile app. And Georgia will roll out a pilot program for the next tax season at the end of the year that gives taxpayers the option of creating a secure account where they verify their identities by taking a photo. If there is a match, taxpayers will be asked take a photo on their smartphones before their tax returns can be processed, ensuring the return was not submitted by a fraudster. To overcome that risk, the companies are requiring selfies that are a little different than the ones you might see on Facebook. After finding the right angle, consumers are asked to move around to confirm that the camera is capturing a live person and not a photo. In the MasterCard and USAA programs, users are told when to blink. Georgia s tax program will prompt people to position their faces a certain way and scan for motion.  