Reliance on China health sector raises searching questions for Baidu: The death of a student following experimental cancer treatment he found through China's biggest search engine, Baidu Inc, has exposed the faultlines in the company's business model, which relies heavily on income from the country's lightly regulated health sector. Before his death, student Wei Zexi, 21, criticized the military-run hospital that provided the failed treatment for misleading claims about its effectiveness and accused Baidu, which controls 80 percent of the Chinese search market, of promoting false medical information. Baidu has come in for fierce online criticism for how it handles adverts within its search results, especially from an industry as sensitive as healthcare, which analysts at Nomura and Daiwa say provides 20 to 30 percent of its search revenues. In 2015 search revenues were 55.7 billion yuan ($8.6 billion), or 84 percent of Baidu's total sales. "Whatever page you're looking at on Baidu is a mess of adverts," said username FreedLiu on China's Weibo microblog, discussing Wei. "They're profiting from loads of people who don't know Baidu auctions (its search results)." Baidu said it applied particular vigilance to healthcare customers, with screening for misleading adverts and a verification program with additional scrutiny for medical advertisers. Criticism in several state media outlets this week suggests a hardening attitude in government. "Pursuing profits is not wrong, but putting profits over helpless patients' lives is against any ethical standards," said a column in the official People's Daily on Monday. Any decision by authorities to restrict healthcare advertising could have a material impact on Baidu's earnings, a concern that has contributed to a sharp fall in its shares in the last three sessions. Daiwa said 10-15 percent of Baidu's search revenue could evaporate under a worst-case scenario.Like most search engines, Baidu places paid-for ads in its search results, but in a series of Reuters search tests it included at least twice as many ads as Alphabet Inc's Google, which is blocked in China, and placed them higher in its list. Though Baidu marks such items as promotions, Google also highlights the word "Ad" in a yellow box.