Mid-Career and Itching to Lead a Startup  This VC Firm Wants You: It s easy to spot the silver hair among Jungle Ventures  gallery of startup founders. Look closer and you ll find many have called the shots at banks and Fortune 500 outfits.  That s no accident. Jungle Ventures  strategy involves betting on executive-suite veterans over starry-eyed twentysomethings who dream of changing the world, saidAmit Anand, co-founder and managing partner of the Singapore-based firm.  While peers crave youthful upstart vision, Jungle Ventures openly courts corporate bigwigs wondering where to take their careers. Singapore is an Asian base for global banking and technology firms such as Google Inc. and Microsoft Corp. -- and that s its advantage, Anand said. Professionals more accustomed to navigating the corporate jungle than envisioning the next Facebook can become standout entrepreneurs with a little help, he said. And they know how to make a buck. Jungle s unusual approach seems to have paid off: it s cashed out of three startups in four years including ZipDial, bought last year by Twitter Inc. Its tactics have won investment from heavy-hitters like Singaporean state investor Temasek Holdings Pte, International Finance Corp. and the wealthy Thakral family. Anand said it s close to raising a new $100 million fund to add consumer tech and Internet of Things to a portfolio spanning e-commerce, finance and software across Asia.Anand and co-founder Anurag Srivastava were professionals-turned-entrepreneurs themselves before they met through Sony Entertainment Television co-founder Jayesh Parekh and started Jungle in 2012. Over the next four years, the pair witnessed the Singaporean startup scene transform from young university dropouts into an arena dominated by mid-career professionals with serious banking and Internet chops.  They were  leaving their jobs, knowing their industries inside out, wanting to disrupt their own industry. More seasoned, more experienced, going after very large ideas,  Anand said.  That s something we are going to double down on over the next years, to back more professionals turning into entrepreneurs in disruptive industries, trying to create new industries. 