How Foursquare knew before almost anyone how bad things were for Chipotle: Chipotle announced its first loss as a public company Tuesday. But two weeks earlier, an unlikely source  the social media app Foursquare   had beat Chipotle to the punch,predicting in a blog post that the burrito maker s sales would drop nearly 30 percent. Chipotle made it official Tuesday afternoon   reporting a drop of 29.7 percent.  The remarkably accurate prediction from a company consumers know for restaurant tips and the ability to check in at locations highlights the emerging power of the gobs of data our smartphones collect and the opportunity for savvy companies to convert that information into piles of cash. Foursquare has spent seven years collecting data and has 85 million places in its database. It describes its data trove as the  biggest foot traffic panel in the world.  Clients that buy Foursquare s data to glean insights include retailers, real estate developers, Wall Street traders and consumer package-goods companies. Foursquare, the seven-year-old start-up, cleverly turned smartphone data into predictions on Chipotle sales that matched Wall Street analysts with far more experience in projecting the successes of businesses such as Chipotle. Last year, Foursquare used its foot-traffic data to predict how many iPhones Apple would sell on a given weekend. Foursquarepredicted sales of 13 million to 15 million. Apple then announced sales of more than 13 million.Once a handful of Foursquare users have checked in at a location, the company knows that a given location represents a certain store. If the smartphones of another Foursquare user move inside these premises   but doesn t check in   Foursquare still knows the user was in the store. Foursquare relies on GPS data, WiFi, cell towers and beacons to pinpoint where smartphone users are. Data experts caution that there are limits to how far Foursquare can replicate its Chipotle predictions elsewhere. They say Foursquare s success will work best at large chains. Foursquare needs a lot of data to make such predictions, so it would probably struggle to accurately predict the sales of a retailer that has only a handful of locations.Another limitation to Foursquare s approach is the nature of a store. Chipotle lends itself to a foot-traffic analysis because customers overwhelmingly travel in person to a store to get their food. It would be more difficult to predict the sales at a business that sells a significant amount of goods online.