Gas Delivery Startups Want to Fill Up Your Car Anywhere. Is That Allowed : A new crop of startups are trying to make gas stations obsolete. Tap an app, and they'll bring the gas to you, filling up your car while you're at work, eating breakfast, or watching Netflix. Filld, WeFuel, Yoshi, Purple and Booster Fuels have started operating in a few cities including San Francisco, Los Angeles, Palo Alto, Nashville, Tennessee, and Atlanta, Georgia. But officials in some of those cities say that driving around in a pickup truck with hundreds of gallons of gasoline might not be safe.  It is not permitted,  said Lt. Jonathan Baxter, a spokesman for the San Francisco fire department. Baxter said if San Francisco residents see any companies fueling vehicles in the city, they should call the fire department. Yoshi, which operates in San Francisco, was surprised to hear Baxter's concerns.  We haven't talked to them. I don't know about that. It s news to me,  said co-founder Nick Alexander. The next day, he said he believed Yoshi was following the law and that it had been careful to limit the size of their gas tanks to stay under limits outlined in the International Fire Code, a guideline followed by many U.S. states. Filld, an 18-month-old startup with thousands of customers in Silicon Valley, plans to start service in San Francisco on Monday, deploying three delivery trucks at 1 p.m.  You can never ask for permission because no one will give it,  said Chris Aubuchon, the chief executive officer at Filld. The Los Angeles Fire Department said it s drafting a policy around gasoline delivery.  Our current fire code does not allow this process; however, we are exploring a wayhis could be allowed with some restrictions,  said Capt. Daniel Curry, a spokesman for the city s fire department.  It s just one of these things that nobody has really thought about before kind of like how Uber popped up out of nowhere.  But he said it s not a gray area:  All I can tell you at this time is it s not allowed as per our current fire code. 