Why is Facebook doing so well  Facebook reported yet another quarter of strong user growth, in marked contrast to Twitter, which has been eking out only very modest growth recently. In fact, over the past year Facebook s monthly active users grew by roughly two-thirds the size of Twitter s entire base. This wasn t a one-off   Facebook has grown by over 150 million users year on year for the past four years at least, and growth has actually accelerated recently: Predictably, the strongest growth has been in the least mature markets   Asia and Facebook s  Rest of World  geographic segments led the charge, with more than 75 million new users each over the past year, while North America and Europe added fewer users (but still grew decently). That reemphasizes the importance of Facebook s efforts to grow usage in those emerging markets and, hence, projects like Free Basics (recently shut down in India) and its other connectivity projects. So far, though, it seems to be doing just fine in these countries.  Average revenue per user is also growing strongly across the board, led by the U.S. and Canada, where annual ARPU is approaching $50. Other regions have far lower ARPU   the rest of the world combined has an annual ARPU of just $7. That overall ARPU growth multiplied by the user growth is driving phenomenal overall revenue growth. And, because that growth requires a much more modest increase in costs, it s also driving margin expansion. Revenue grew by 52 percent year on year for the second quarter in a row, and operating margin was up 11 points year on year. Just as a reminder, that revenue is almost all coming from ads at this point   the FarmVille era is well and truly over at this point, and payments are a tiny fraction of total revenue for Facebook today. One of the hardest things to get at in Facebook s results is the role of Instagram. The app has been serving up ads for some time now, and management has been talking up the benefits in general terms for several quarters. But it doesn t break out metrics other than monthly active users (400 million at last count). In addition, Instagram users are excluded from the MAU count Facebook reports and on which it bases its ARPU calculations, even though Instagram revenue is included in ARPU. As such, there s a little misdirection going on, in that Facebook is including Instagram in the numerator but not the denominator here. There is, to be sure, a good chance that many Instagram users are also Facebook users, so there s not too much double counting, but I do wonder how much of the growth in ARPU is from Facebook monetizing Instagram better. From a perspective of internal threats to success, Facebook is placing some biggish bets on future projects like virtual reality (through Oculus) and research and development into new forms of connectivity, both projects outside its core business, and therefore both potential distractions and financial sinkholes. But the scope of these efforts seems to be modest in the context of Facebook s overall business, and its margins aren t suffering yet. Government action on Free Basics, as we ve already seen in India, is another possible threat, but a modest one at this point, and one few other governments seem willing to take on for now.  Perhaps the biggest threat of all is that platform owners like Apple and Google end up owning the next round of devices and platforms in the same way they have smartphones, despite Facebook s VR investments, and steadily squeeze out third parties they perceive as a threat. Facebook seems aware of this possibility, and has invested not just in VR as a potential future interface but also an increasingly OS-like presence on smartphones.