The Apple Watch did not change the Apple Store like we thought it would: It was just over a year ago that the Apple Watch was slated to be unveiled, and the Internet rumor and analysis machine was running in overdrive: Wall Street-types weighed in on whether the new gadget could propel the world s most valuable company to greater revenue and an even higher stock price. Tech geeks were chattering about the nitty-gritty of its features, and culture mavens debated whether it would become a game changer like the iPod or iPhone before it. And in the retail world, the major question was this: Would the arrival of a product that was not just a gadget, but also a luxury fashion item, push Apple to shake up its successful store format  The root of the speculation, or at least, the primary fuel for it, was a single paragraph in a New Yorker profile of Apple s design chief, Jonathan Ive. In that story it was reported that Ive and Angela Ahrendts, Apple s senior vice president of retail, were working on a redesign of Apple stores, perhaps to make the setting more conducive to selling a luxury timepiece. The story noted that Ive had  overheard someone saying,  I m not going to buy a watch if I can t stand on carpet.    And so analysts   and reporters, including this one   began wondering: Would certain sections of the store be carpeted  Would they be outfitted with full-length mirrors so people could see how the watch fit into their overall look  Would there be showcase lighting, like at an upscale jeweler  If you ve set foot in an Apple store lately, you know the answer to all of these questions: No. Apple did end up adding a backroom VIP area to at least one store in New York where customers could try on the Edition, the luxe version of the watch that has a five-figure price tag. But the Apple Store, by and large, still has the same vibe and aesthetic that it did in the pre-Watch era. Sure, some newer stores have fresh features, such as one in Brussels that is outfitted with live trees. An Apple representative has said that a forthcoming store in Memphis is to be a  next-generation  Apple store, with new design elements such as a large TV screen that can display a changing array of products or artwork. But even with those kinds of potential changes, the Apple Store continues to be defined by a spare, contemporary look and feel   and the changes that have been implemented or are on the way don t exactly seem linked to the unique needs of selling the watch.