Alibaba Financial Affiliate Raises $4.5 Billion: The Alibaba Group of China has become a colossus in the global Internet world, with a market value of nearly $200 billion. Now its online payment affiliate is aiming for  similarly lofty financial goal: becoming one of the most valuable privately held technology companies in the world. The affiliate, known as the Ant Financial Services Group, said on Tuesday that it had raised $4.5 billion from investors. The private financing round suggests that the company is now valued at about $60 billion   or more than $10 billion over the market value of PayPal Holdings, its closest analogue. Ant Financial may not be as well known in the West as Silicon Valley darlings like Uber Technologies, which was most recently valued at about $62.5 billion. But Ant Financial   whose controlling shareholder isAlibaba s billionaire founder, Jack Ma   has become an online power in its own right. It is one of the biggest electronic payment companies in the world by virtue of Alipay, a payment service that is commonly used in China. It is also one of the most prominent symbols of strength in China s private sector, particularly in the field of online payments. Slow-moving state-run banks and an initial absence of regulation have allowed privately run companies to weave themselves into everyday life. Ant Financial now encompasses not only online payments, but also low-risk money market funds and a wallet app that enables easy payment from smartphones around China. Chinese consumers use Alipay to shop online, transfer money to one another, hail taxis, buy movie tickets and even invest their spare change. A money-market fund affiliated with Ant Financial was once one of the world s largest. According to the announcement on Tuesday, Alipay has more than 450 million users, or more than double the number PayPal has. Such is the power of the company that its latest financing was led by some of China s biggest state-controlled banks, including arms of the China Construction Bank and China Life Insurance. That indicates the level of government support that the company enjoys in a country where much of the economy is still state-directed. Ant Financial s previous fund-raising round, which was held last year, included China s national social security fund and an arm of the China Development Bank. In a move that could further endear the company to Chinese officials, Mr. Ma has said he hopes to take Ant Financial public in China. Still, if Ant Financial follows through on the plan, it would be one of the biggest initial public offerings since that of Alibaba itself, which raisednearly $22 billion in 2014 in the biggest public offering on record.