A Marriage Gone Bad: Walgreens Struggles to Shake Off Theranos: The sprawling drugstore chain, now a part of Walgreens Boots Alliance, was Theranos s first   and thus far only   direct-to-consumer retail partner, promising to eventually make Theranos s  wellness centers  an integral part of its more than 8,000 stores nationwide. When it announced the deal in 2013, Walgreens hoped to drive traffic to its stores and bask in the reflected glow from one of Silicon Valley s hottest unicorns and its youthful founder and glamorous chief executive, Elizabeth Holmes. For unproved Theranos, the Walgreens endorsement was akin to the Good Housekeeping seal of approval. Theranos s valuation vaulted to $9 billion and put Ms. Holmes on the Forbes list of billionaires. Nearly three years later, with Theranos under siege on multiple regulatory fronts and its reputation in tatters, it s clear that the relationship has been a disaster for Walgreens. The company has been trying to distance itself, halting expansion of Theranos testing in its stores and, in January, threatening to end the partnership if Theranos did not meet regulatory standards within 30 days. But that deadline has come and gone. With this week s news that Theranos is under criminal investigation for, among other things, possibly defrauding Walgreens and other investors, the question is: What will it take for Walgreens to end its troubled relationship  Theranos s lawyers have taken a hard line, insisting that Walgreens is contractually bound by their agreement. So far, the approach has worked. Walgreens appears to have taken a cautious approach toward terminating the relationship, perhaps preferring to wait until federal regulators impose penalties or the criminal investigation yields formal charges, either of which would strengthen Walgreens s hand. But that could take years. Theranos can appeal any penalties, and a grand jury investigation could be a protracted process. And Theranos is likely to sue Walgreens in any event if it terminates their agreement. In the meantime, Walgreens risks being dragged into nearly every negative story about Theranos.