Inside One of the World s Most Secretive iPhone Factories: A few minutes past 9 a.m. at Pegatron Corp. s vast factory on Shanghai s outskirts, thousands of workers dressed in pink jackets are getting ready to make iPhones. The men and women stare into face scanners and swipe badges at security turnstiles to clock in. The strict ID checks are there to make sure they don t work excessive overtime. The process takes less than two seconds. This is the realm in which the world s most profitable smartphones are made, part of Apple Inc. s closely guarded supply chain. After years of accusations that employees in China were forced to work long, grueling hours, Pegatron and Apple adopted new procedures to keep iPhone assemblers from amassing excessive overtime. They re eager to show how the system works, and for the first time are granting a western journalist access into the inner sanctum.The factory at the corner of Xiu Yan and Shen Jiang roads is one of the most secretive facilities at the heart of iPhone production and covers an area equal to almost 90 football fields. In the center is a plaza with a firehouse, police station and post office. There are shuttle buses, mega-cafeterias, landscaped lawns and koi ponds. The grey and brown-hued concrete buildings are meant to evoke traditional Chinese architecture. The brand-new Shanghai Disneyland, which opens its doors in June, is a 20-minute drive away.Inside, the factory still hides a secret, according to China Labor Watch. Base pay remains so low that workers need overtime simply to make ends meet, the advocacy group said. It said 1,261 pay stubs from Pegatron s Shanghai facility from September and October 2015 show evidence of excessive overtime. Pegatron, an Asustek spinoff, is the world s biggest contract electronics manufacturer after Foxconn, according to Bloomberg Intelligence.Pegatron countered by saying the group miscounted because that period straddled state holidays, when pay was three times  normal. Apple and Pegatron say they were never contacted by China Labor Watch, which said it approached Apple but didn t get a response. Since March, the group said it s collected an additional 441 pay stubs that point to continued excessive overtime. Back in the cafeteria, a group of women rush to finish lunch before their 50-minute break is over. They hail from across China, from Sichuan in the west to Shandong in the northeast. None has been there for more than a few months.  This is relaxed compared to other factories,  said Xu Na, 30, who followed her younger brother to work at the factory.  We never work more than 60 hours. 