Flipkart is in the middle of a crisis of its own making stalled growth compounded by management churn and the imminent possibility that it will cede the top slot to Amazon. But it s not too late to change its strategy. Flipkart is in the middle of a storm of its own making: It is faced with a significant management churn at the top. For a company that pioneered e-commerce in the country, growth has virtually stalled since the middle of last year and the leadership team hasn t figured out a way to kick-start sales. Its innovation engine isn t firing. In e-commerce lingo, the gross merchandise volume (GMV) sold over a given period of time has not grown substantially. In the offline world, it is the equivalent of saying, the sales or revenue numbers aren t growing. And this, for the e-commerce pioneer that until now grew its GMV by over 200% per annum for the past three years. The very culture that made Flipkart a runaway success in the first phase of its existence is now hindering its progress. The battle won t be easy. Amazon will unleash Amazon Prime, Amazon Fresh and may even partner with offline retailers to consolidate its position as the default destination for online shopping. Amazon has rapidly scaled up its seller ecosystem and outstrips Flipkart today in several product categories. It has a chance to win India and that is being handed over on a platter thanks to the internal confusion at Flipkart. Amazon is here to play a 20 year game and any fumbles will cost competitors heavily. Now imagine the Flipkart investors  dilemma. They ve poured in over $3 billion and own over 80% of the company. They are neck deep in a business that is burning $50-70 million a month and has to get ready for the next phase of battle in the market. If the cost-cutting moves misfire and market share starts to shrink, the founders could very well put a request for another $500 million for the fight against Amazon. What will the investors do  A new investor is unlikely to step in. Even though the Chinese e-commerce players like Alibaba are waiting in the wings to swoop down on prized assets in India, there's a chance that they could choose to wait out this stage of the company s evolution why buy and restructure, when you can wait and buy a cleaned-up asset  Hence, one of the current investors will have to lead the round and it will put serious pressure on the team to show results. Flipkart has a last chance to redeem itself and take control of its destiny, else it will become another victim of early success. It is too big to fail and the market opportunity is too large to ignore. India will have more than one large e-commerce player just the sheer potential of the market will keep it from consolidating for many years and so, Flipkart s existence is not in question. But the next few months will determine the destiny of the company. The A-team cannot afford to flounder so early in their journey. 