Qualcomm sues Apple for hobbling its iPhone chips to make Intel look better: After Apple hit Qualcomm with a barrage of lawsuits earlier this year, the chipmaker is countersuing Apple right back. Qualcomm today filed its Answers and Counterclaims to Apple s January lawsuit, filed in the Southern District of California. The full details of the suit can be read in a 139-page document (PDF) released by Qualcomm, but the company has five key complaints   including the claim that Apple deliberately didn t use the full potential of Qualcomm chips in iPhone 7 phones so that they wouldn t perform better than the modems provided by Intel. Qualcomm says that Apple  chose not to utilize certain high-performance features of the Qualcomm chipsets for the iPhone 7 (preventing consumers from enjoying the full extent of Qualcomm s innovation),  and when Qualcomm iPhones supposedly outperformed Intel iPhones,  Apple falsely claimed that there was  no discernible difference  between  the two variants.The company also says that Apple prevented it from revealing to customers  the extent to which iPhones with Qualcomm s chipsets outperformed iPhones with Intel s chipsets.  As part of its five core arguments, Qualcomm says Apple  threatened  it to keep quiet about the differences between Intel and Qualcomm iPhones, preventing Qualcomm from  making any public comparisons about the superior performance of the Qualcomm-powered iPhones.  Other complaints in the countersuit include claims that Apple breached and mischaracterized agreements and negotiations with Qualcomm, encouraged attacks on the company in a number of markets by misrepresenting facts and making false statements, and interfered with Qualcomm s existing agreements with other companies. Apple s original suit against Qualcomm was filed in January this year in the United States, and claimed $1 billion from the chipmaker, arguing that it had been drastically overcharging for the use of patents. That was followed up by two additional suits   one in China and one in the United Kingdom   that also focused on patents and designs. A case filed in Beijing claimed 1 billion yuan ($145 million) for Qualcomm s abuse of China s monopoly laws. Tim Cook said that Apple had  no choice  but to sue Qualcomm, even after the two companies had worked together for many years, saying that he and his company  didn t see another way forward.  According to Cook, Qualcomm was  insisting on charging royalties for technologies that they had nothing to do with,  collecting money on features like Apple s TouchID fingerprint readers and cameras.