Apple Services Shut Down in China in Startling About-Face: For years, there has been a limit to the success of American technology companies in China. Capture too much market share or wield too much influence, and Beijing will push back. Apple has largely been an exception to that trend. Yet the Silicon Valley company is now facing a regulatory push against its services in China that could signal its good relations in the country may be turning. Last week, Apple s iBooks Store and iTunes Movies were shut down in China, just six months after they were started there. Initially, Apple apparently had the government s approval to introduce the services. But then a regulator, the State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television, asserted its authority and demanded the closings, according to two people who spoke on the condition of anonymity.The about-face is startling, given Apple s record in China. Unlike many other American tech companies, Apple has succeeded in introducing several new products   like its mobile payments system Apple Pay   in China recently. New resistance from the Chinese government to that expansion could potentially hurt the Cupertino, Calif., company. To a degree more than many tech companies, Apple relies on the smooth operation of its software   including its App Store and services like iTunes, which are tightly integrated with the iPhone and iPad   to keep customers coming back to its devices. Apple, which is facing a slowdown in sales of its iPhones, is also reliant on China for growth, so further moves by Beijing to curtail services could crimp sales. The company counts China as its second-largest market after the United States. Its China numbers will be dissected on Tuesday, when it reports quarterly earnings. China s pushback against Apple shows that the company may finally be vulnerable to the heightened scrutiny that other American tech companies have faced in recent years. That scrutiny was spurred by revelations from the former United States National Security Agency contractor Edward J. Snowden in 2013 of the use of American companies to conduct cyberespionage for Washington. China has sweeping goals in its move against Apple, said Daniel H. Rosen, founding partner of Rhodium Group, a New-York based advisory firm specializing in the Chinese economy.  They are interested in protecting the content that the Chinese people see, policing its national security and favoring indigenous giants such as Huawei, Alibaba and Tencent,  Mr. Rosen said. In this new era, he added, China  is strongly disinclined to accept the dominance of foreign players on the Internet, not least those from the United States.  Sales in China for those companies, including Cisco, IBM, Microsoft and Qualcomm, have slid as government oversight has increased. Some have grappled with raids, investigations and fines. Some have also been pressured to sell off holdings, hand over technology and work with local partners to expand their China businesses. Though Apple is one of the eight, it has had a much easier time - so far.