Line's Plan to Outflank Facebook in Asia: Think Local: Line Corp. has an instant message for Facebook Inc.: Asia is ours. Country by country, the chat app from Japan is signing up new users by adopting a different strategy in each place. In its home market, cute bunny and bear stickers drew in everyone from schoolgirls to suit-clad businessmen. In Indonesia, Line built a classmate-connecting service after learning that alumni networks are a powerful social glue there. In Muslim countries, Line rolled out special features for people observing the Ramadan fast. All of this is aimed at getting new users hooked onto Line before they have a chance to become loyal to a rival service, such as Facebook's Messenger and WhatsApp, or China's WeChat. That, along with Line's knack for making money from its app, bolsters the company's plan to hold an initial public offering as soon as this year. Line, a subsidiary of South Korean Internet company Naver Corp, now has more than 215 million monthly active users. One of Line's biggest foes in Asia is Tencent Holdings's WeChat, which boasts 697 million users. In some ways, WeChat is more than a just messaging service, with a myriad of features that let people book car rides, find dates and exchange money all from within the app. Line isn't just good at reeling in new users, it also knows how to make money off of them. A third of the company's 120.7 billion yen ($1.1 billion) in 2015 revenue came from virtual-sticker sales. Idezawa also appears to have figured out how to make advertising work inside a messaging app. Under one marketing program, companies can pay 40 million yen to give customers access to sponsored stickers for two weeks. People are more likely to pay attention to ads if they appear while chatting with friends, Idezawa says. Line is also targeting other Southeast Asian countries, the Middle East and even South America. The company now has 3,800 employees (average age, 31) supporting services in 19 languages. In order to snag local users, Idezawa dispatches teams of engineers, designers, marketers and business developers to each new country they are empowered to come up with new features and services that appeal to those markets. For example, in Latin America, Line rolled out a selfie app called B612, which now has more than 50 million users. Facebook, for its part, is keeping WhatsApp a no-frills service with 1 billion users just the way it is, even after buying the messaging app for $22 billion in 2014. At the same time, Facebook has started to add features to Messenger, the companion to its social-networking website, letting people book car rides, read news and, yes, download stickers.