Got a Hot Seller on Amazon  Prepare for E-Tailer to Make One Too: Rain Design has been selling an aluminum laptop stand on Amazon.com Inc. for more than a decade. A best-seller in its category, the $43 product has a 5-star rating and 2,460 customer reviews. In July, a similar stand appeared at about half the price. The brand: AmazonBasics. Since then, sales of the Rain Design original have slipped.  We don t feel good about it,  says Harvey Tai, the company s general manager.  But there s nothing we can do because they didn t violate the patent.  Rain Design s experience shows how Amazon is using insights gleaned from its vast Web store to build a private-label juggernaut that now includes more than 3,000 products -- from women s blouses and men s khakis to fire pits and camera tripods. The strategy is a digital twist on one used for years by department stores and big-box chains to edge out middlemen and go direct to consumers -- boosting loyalty and profits. At first, AmazonBasics -- launched in 2009 -- focused on batteries, recordable DVDs and such. Then for several years, the house brand  slept quietly as it retained data about other sellers  successes,  according to the report. But in the past couple of years, AmazonBasics has stepped up the pace, rolling out a range of products that seem perfectly tailored to customer demand. In his annual shareholder letter earlier this month, Chief Executive Officer Jeff Bezos said Amazon is the  best place in the world to fail.  That philosophy applies to private-label products, which quickly disappear if they receive poor customer ratings. About 96 percent of AmazonBasics products had a rating of 3.5 stars or more, according to the Skubana report. The authors  advice to merchants:  If you have a product that is lower than 3.5 stars, that product is dead to you and your customers. Liquidate and move on.  Amazon s size gives it an advantage over so-called direct-to-consumer startups such as mattress seller Casper and eyewear merchant Warby Parker because Amazon can experiment with one product rather than having to build out an entire line. If an item flops, it s no big deal. Amazon isn t only copying products made by small, little-known merchants like Rain Design. Its private-label lines are increasingly competing with name brands, and nowhere is that happening more than in apparel.