Netflix s Forecast for Growth Disappoints Wall Street: On Monday, Netflix announced that it expected to add just two million members outside the United States in the second quarter this year   less than the 3.5 million analysts had expected. The figure also represents a decrease from the 2.4 million members the streaming service added internationally in the same period the previous year. That cloudy forecast sent shares down more than 10 percent in after-hours trading, as Netflix has tied its future to its bold global push. The company has been pouring resources into its expanding its international footprint, telling investors that it would run at break-even profitability until the end of 2016 as it continued to roll out the service abroad and increased its investment in content. That uncertainty over the competitive landscape, as well as fears about growth prospects both inside and outside the United States, overshadowed the generally positive first-quarter financial results that Netflix announced on Monday. The company beat expectations for profit and revenue growth during the first quarter. Profits totaled $28 million, up 16 percent from the same period last year, and total revenues increased 24 percent to nearly $2 billion. Netflix added a record 6.7 million total streaming members during the first quarter, bringing its total to 81.5 million, with about 42 percent outside the United States. Netflix had forecast that it would reach nearly 80.9 million total paid members in the quarter. In the United States, Netflix surpassed its forecasts for subscriber growth during a period in which price increases went into effect for some customers. The company added 2.23 million subscribers in America during the quarter, bringing its paid membership in the country to 45.7 million. Outside the United States, Netflix also beat its expectations for growth, adding 4.5 million international streaming subscribers. The company said it was planning to spend more than $6 billion on programming in 2017, up from $5 billion this year.