Lyft Is Gaining on Uber as It Spends Big for Growth: In January, Lyft said it raised $1 billion, which is helping fuel the spending spree and steal market share from Uber Technologies Inc. To keep costs in check, Lyft has promised investors to cap its losses at no more than $50 million a month, according to a person familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified because the plans are private.Meanwhile, Uber has been working to fulfill its own promise to shareholders and employees that it would achieve profitability in North America by the second quarter of 2016, a milestone it says it has now reached in the U.S. and Canada. In February, Uber earned an average of 19  per ride in the U.S., according to previously undisclosed financial documents. Uber takes about a 25 percent cut of a typical fare, most of which goes to antifraud efforts, credit-card processing, customer support, marketing, and software development, the documents show. Not included in Uber s profitability calculations are interest, taxes, or equity-based compensation for employees. Uber Chief Executive Officer Travis Kalanick s commitment to profitability has left an opening for Lyft, and the smaller upstart s free-spending strategy is starting to pay off.  Lyft says it has captured 45 percent of trips in Austin, Texas, and Los Angeles and 43 percent in San Francisco, where both companies are based. Uber says it had 55 percent of ride-hailing sales in Austin, 75 percent in Los Angeles, and 66 percent in San Francisco, citing third-party credit card data from the first two weeks of March. Uber says Lyft has shaken loose only a few percentage points.  From everything I m looking at, we re gaining share in all top 20 markets, which is where 80 percent to 90 percent of rides happen,  says Lyft President John Zimmer.  This continues to prove what we said all along, which is once you hit a certain level of scale, it s a natural duopoly.  Outside of big cities, though, it s still Uber country. Of 169 million trips booked through Uber worldwide in March, the company says 50 million of those were in the U.S. Lyft says it did 11 million U.S. rides that month, up from 7 million in October. Lyft continues to devise new and often expensive ways to expand in the U.S., the only country in which it operates. When a Lyft driver refers someone to sign up as a new driver, both get a $750 bonus in some cities. And Lyft has the capacity to keep spending. Zimmer says the company still has  by far the majority  of the $2 billion it s raised from investors.  This allows us to control our own destiny. We do not need to raise any additional capital, and it s just a fantastic position to be in.  Whether Lyft s gains will stick remains to be seen. Uber says customers lured away by subsidies are the most likely to return if Lyft s prices go up.  It s easy enough to buy trips with heavy subsidies for drivers and discounts for riders,  Jill Hazelbaker, a spokeswoman for Uber, wrote in an e-mail.  But to build a successful, long-term business, you need a path to profitability which Uber has always had. 