Facebook Bets on a Bot Resurgence, Chattier Than Ever: On Tuesday, Facebook underlined the rise of bots at its annual F8 developer conference in San Francisco. Facebook said it was opening up Messenger, its own messaging app, so that any outside company   from Applebee s to Zara   could create a bot capable of interacting with people through the chat program. With the move, Facebook is aiming to usher in a new era of customer service by bringing together the 900 million regular monthly users of Messenger with the more than 15 million businesses that have an official brand page on Facebook. Facebook is kicking off the project with partners like Spring, 1-800-Flowers, a weather and travel app called Poncho and news partners like CNN. Facebook is also testing advertising on chatbots as a potential source of revenue.  We re conversational creatures,  David A. Marcus, vice president of messaging at Facebook, said of chat.  That s the way our brain functions. That s the way we re wired. As a result, it s probably the most natural interface there is.  Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook s chief executive, also sketched out his grand vision at the conference for the company s future over the next five, 10 and 15 years. Under his plan, people would accompany Facebook as it builds out a comprehensive global system of communications, virtual reality and shopping.  We all have a desire to be understood and relate to each other,  Mr. Zuckerberg said.  We re always trying to get closer to capturing the purest form.  Facebook s push into chatbots, which is part of that vision, follows other recent signs of bot life. Late last month, Microsoft released a bot called Tay that was designed to have discussions with people on Twitter   only to curtail the effort when people taught the software to repeat racist and other offensive remarks. Still, Microsoft s chief executive, Satya Nadella,trumpeted bots days later at a developer conference, saying the software could be used to produce new methods of interaction.