Amazon May Violate India s New Rules on Foreign E-Commerce: For Amazon, no country is more important to its global growth ambitions than India, the second-most-populous nation in the world behind China, where online shopping is in its infancy and growing explosively. But Amazon s India plans just ran into a hitch. Late last month, the Indian government issued additional rules governing foreign ownership of e-commerce companies operating in the country. The government added regulations related to pricing and the sourcing of sales on sites that Amazon and several rivals appear to violate. What is more, the new policy was effective immediately, giving Amazon and others no time to comply.India essentially bars companies with substantial foreign ownership from operating retail outlets that sell from their own inventories of goods. Although American multinationals like Amazon, Walmart and Apple have sought to overturn or soften those restrictions, the government has made few changes. To work around the restrictions, Amazon and competitors billed themselves as e-commerce marketplaces, eBay-like websites that matched buyers with independent sellers. Amazon owns no inventory of its own in India, though it handles the warehousing and delivery of goods for many of its independent sellers, a model it also employs in the United States. Last week, Indian regulators confirmed that online marketplaces, which had operated in a gray era, are legal. But they added a rule saying that no single seller can account for more than 25 percent of sales on such an e-commerce marketplace. It also limited the influence that online marketplaces can exert over the prices set by their sellers. The new regulations appear to make Amazon s dependence on one large seller on its site, Cloudtail, illegal, according to industry officials and analysts. While Amazon says it has more than 80,000 sellers on its India site, Cloudtail is estimated to account for 40 percent to 50 percent of the site s sales, according to Mr. Meena of Forrester. The parent company of Cloudtail is a partnership between Catamaran Ventures, the investment firm of the Indian business magnate, N.R. Narayana Murthy, and Amazon, which owns 49 percent. India s leading e-commerce company, Flipkart, also works closely with an affiliated large seller and faces a similar problem.