Virtual Reality Check: Rating the HTC Vive and the Oculus Rift: JUST a week after Facebook released the Oculus Rift, the first high-powered virtual reality device for consumers, a less publicized contender has arrived: the HTC Vive. Similar to the Rift, the Vive   a joint development by the Taiwanese manufacturer HTC and the video game distribution company Valve   is a virtual reality headset that connects to a powerful computer. The Vive is even more expensive than the Rift   it costs $799 for the headset and $1,000 to $2,000 for a compatible computer. Facebook sOculus sells the Rift headset for $599, or $1,500 when the system is bundled with a computer. The main advantage of the HTC Vive headset is that it comes with motion controllers, which let you effectively reach out and grab objects in virtual reality. This kind of interaction feels much more natural for virtual reality than the game controller included with the Rift. Also, the Vive s motion-sensing base stations capture richer movements, enabling people to walk around in a larger space or crouch and grab something while using virtual reality; the Rift s camera can detect movements, too, but the Rift was primarily designed to be used while standing or sitting. Another benefit of the Vive is that the headset fits better. With the Rift, I could always see a small gap in the space beneath the nose. The Vive headset completely blocks the outside world. HTC also includes a piece of foam that can be inserted into the Vive for a better fit for a narrower face. But a major downside of the Vive is the setup, which is more demanding than the Rift s. HTC recommends that you drill mounts into the ceiling to install the motion-sensing base stations to ensure that the sensors have a clear line of sight with the headset and your body. In other words, to take full advantage of the Vive, you probably need to dedicate a room to virtual reality; to use the Rift, you can get away with clearing out a bit of standing space. The other obvious downside of the Vive is the higher cost. With a computer and accessories included in the total price, the Vive will cost roughly $300 more than the Rift. Then again, if you are willing to spend more than $1,000 for virtual reality, that extra $300 might not matter much. This is Year 1 of powerful and capable virtual reality systems coming to the mainstream. Over time, the content that will become available for these devices will define their worth. There isn t much to do with either system yet, and consumers would be wise to wait to see if any killer virtual reality apps or games emerge for the systems.