With $340 million in revenue, Nest is underperforming, and its future at Google is at risk:  Nest generated about $340 million in sales last year, according to three people with knowledge of the matter. That s an impressive figure for a company in the very nascent market of Internet-connected devices. Nest currently sells three products: The flagship smart thermostat; Protect, its smoke detector; and Nest Cam, the home-monitoring video predecessor to Dropcam. But it s below the initial expectations Google had set for Nest when it bought the startup in 2014 for a whopping $3.2 billion. The company s sales performance may face even deeper scrutiny inside Google s new parent company, Alphabet, where Nest now sits, as the hardware maker faces its most critical year ever. Alphabet, whose execs have spoken regularly about controlling costs at the non-Google companies, may become less charitable. And in the meanwhile, Nest's CEO got slammed in a column in TechCrunch for the culture there: though the company currently manufactures three products   its thermostat, a smoke alarm, and its Nest cam (via its Dropcam acquisition)   it has repeatedly delayed product releases and disappointed its customers, particularly given the billing that Nest s products receive. In one of the more visible cases of customer dissatisfaction, a New York Times reporter said in January that a software bug drained his Nest thermostat s battery, a discovery he made only when his infant began crying from his chilly bedroom in the middle of the night. Nest s smart smoke alarm has also been plagued by software glitches. In the meantime, says The Information, Google has moved forward on similar efforts, including its OnHub wireless router and a stealth project to create a competitor to Amazon s Echo. That Google has done so without Nest s involvement must be demoralizing to Nest s current employees, who were presumably drawn to the challenge of helping Nest become one of the world s great hardware companies. But there s reason for even more concern going forward: Fadell has created a culture that s increasingly unlikely to attract the world s best engineers, which has always been the top priority for its parent company. (Google, in stark contrast, is consistently ranked as one of thebest places to work.) If Alphabet wants to maintain its feel-good reputation, it may be time to part ways with Fadell, or at least to demote him. He s now had more than two years to prove himself. What Fadell has shown instead is that he s unable to get out of his own way   or Nest s.