In Yahoo, Another Example of the Buyback Mirage: It is one of the great investment conundrums of our time: Why do so many stockholders cheer when a company announces that it s buying back shares  Stated simply, repurchase programs can be hazardous to a company s long-term financial health and often signal a management that has run out of better ways to invest in the business. And yet investors love them.  Not all stock repurchases are bad, of course. But given the enormous popularity of buybacks nowadays, those that are harmful probably outnumber the beneficial. Those who run companies like buybacks because they make their earnings look better on a per-share basis. When fewer shares are outstanding, each one technically earns more. But a company s overall profit growth is unaffected by share buybacks. And comparing increases in earnings per share with real profit growth reveals the impact that buybacks have on that particular measure. Call it the buyback mirage. Consider Yahoo. The company bought back shares worth $6.6 billion from 2008 to 2014, according to Robert L. Colby, a retired investment professional and developer of Corequity, an equity valuation service used by institutional investors. These purchases helped increase Yahoo s earnings per share about 16 percent annually, on average. But a good bit of that performance was the buyback mirage. Growth in Yahoo s overall net profits came in at about 11 percent annually. Given these figures, Mr. Colby reckoned that Yahoo, if it had invested that same amount of money in its operations, would have had to generate only a 3.2 percent after-tax return to produce overall net profit growth of 16 percent annually over those years. Yahoo is not alone. Mr. Colby conducted a cost-benefit analysis of 26 companies buying back stock versus using that money to invest in a business. He found that McDonald s was another problematic example. Since 2008, McDonald s has allocated almost $18 billion to buybacks. This has helped produce 4.4 percent increases in annual earnings per share over the period. To equal that growth in overall earnings, the company would have had to generate just a 2.3 percent return on the money it spent buying back stock, Mr. Colby estimated. Last November, Moody s Investors Service downgraded McDonald s unsecured debt rating, citing its plans to increase its borrowings in part to fund future buybacks.