How real businesses are using machine learning: There is no question that machine learning is at the top of the hype curve. And, of course, the backlash is already in full force: I ve heard that old joke  Machine learning is like teenage sex; everyone is talking about it, no one is actually doing it  about 20 times in the past week alone.But from where I sit, running a company that enables a huge number of real-world machine-learning projects, it s clear that machine learning is already forcing massive changes in the way companies operate. So where is it happening  Here are a few behind-the-scenes applications that make life better every day. Making user-generated content valuable: The average piece of user-generated content (UGC) is awful. It s actually way worse than you think. It can be rife with misspellings, vulgarity or flat-out wrong information. But by identifying the best and worst UGC, machine-learning models can filter out the bad and bubble up the good without needing a real person to tag each piece of content. Pinterest uses machine learning to show you more interesting content. Yelp uses machine learning to sort through user-uploaded photos. NextDoor uses machine learning to sort through content on their message boards. Disqus uses machine learning to weed out spammy comments. Finding products faster: Successful e-commerce startups from Lyst to Trunk Archive employ machine learning to show high-quality content to their users. Other startups, like Rich Relevance and Edgecase, employ machine-learning strategies to give their commerce customers the benefits of machine learning when their users are browsing for products. Engaging with customers: You may have noticed  contact us  forms getting leaner in recent years. That s another place where machine learning has helped streamline business processes. Instead of having users self-select an issue and fill out endless form fields, machine learning can look at the substance of a request and route it to the right place. Understanding customer behavior: Machine learning also excels at sentiment analysis. And while public opinion can sometimes seem squishy to non-marketing folks, it actually drives a lot of big decisions. For example, say a movie studio puts out a trailer for a summer blockbuster. They can monitor social chatter to see what s resonating with their target audience, then tweak their ads immediately to surface what people are actually responding to - that puts people in theaters.