What AlphaGo s sly move says about machine creativity: AlphaGo, the computer system Google engineers trained to master the ancient game of Go, needed only one move to make it abundantly clear that it has left humans in its dust. The move came Thursday, in the second game of AlphaGo s 4-1 landmark victory over South Korean Lee Sedol, one of the world s best Go players. About an hour into the match, AlphaGo placed one of its stones in a nontraditional spot on the board that surprised those watching.  I don t really know if it s a good or bad move,  said Michael Redmond, a commentator on a live English broadcast.  It s a very strange move.  Redmond, one of the Western world s best Go players, could only crack a smile.  I thought it was a mistake,  his broadcast partner, Chris Garlock, said with a laugh. Sedol, however, was more serious. He stared at the board, then got up from the table and left the room. As Sedol returned after a few minutes and pondered his next move, it became clear that AlphaGo s move was no mistake. It might be strange, but it definitely wasn t bad. It was brilliant.  Sedol would take almost 16 minutes to make his next move. He would never recover, losing the match.  Almost no human pro would ve thought of it, I think,  Redmond said after the match. Pedro Domingos, a computer science professor at the University of Washington and author of  The Master Algorithm,  saw a parallel between AlphaGo s style and how chess prodigy Bobby Fischer was feared because his early moves were considered too foolish to even be made. But as Fischer s matches wore on, the ill-advised moves suddenly looked genius.  If that s not creative, then what is   Domingos asked. He sees machines delivering creative results, and they re just getting started. Domingos believes a computer eventually will write a best-selling book. And he thinks there s a 50-50 chance that a computer writes a hit pop song in the next decade, given advances in artificial intelligence techniques and computing power.Domingos said such advances shouldn t come as a surprise, as machines increasingly demonstrate that creativity isn t magical and distinctly human.