The Echo From Amazon Brims With Groundbreaking Promise: Many of the world s largest technology companies have spent the last five years searching in vain for the holy grail, a machine to succeed the smartphone as the next must-have gadget. At the most promising candidate for the Next Great Gadget isn t made by Apple, Google, Facebook or Microsoft. Instead, it is the Echo, a screenless, voice-controlled household computer built by Amazon   a company whose last big foray into consumer electronics, the Fire Phone, was a humiliating flop. What is most interesting about the Echo is that it came out of nowhere. It isn t much to look at, and even describing its utility is difficult. Here is a small, stationary machine that you set somewhere in your house, which you address as Alexa, which performs a variety of tasks   playing music, reading the news and weather, keeping a shopping list   that you can already do on your phone. But the Echo has a way of sneaking into your routines. When Alexa reorders popcorn for you, or calls an Uber car for you, when your children start asking Alexa to add Popsicles to the grocery list, you start to want pretty much everything else in life to be Alexa-enabled, too. In this way, Amazon has found a surreptitious way to bypass Apple and Google   the reigning monarchs in the smartphone world   with a gadget that has the potential to become a dominant force in the most intimate of environments: our homes. First, it s simple to learn, and its voice-recognition capabilities are more intuitivethan those of many other vocal assistants (like Apple s Siri or Google Now). More than that, it keeps gaining new powers. More important, just like the early iPhone, Amazon has managed to turn the Echo into the center of a new ecosystem. Developers are flocking to create voice-controlled apps for the device, or skills, as Amazon calls them. There are now more than 300 skills for the Echo, from the trivial   there is one to make Alexa produce rude body sounds on command   to the pretty handy. It can tell you transit schedules, start a seven-minute workout, read recipes, do math and conversions, and walk you through adventure games, among other possibilities. Makers of digital home devices like Nest are also rushing to make their products compatible with the Echo. Alexa can now control your Internet-connected lights, home thermostats and a variety of other devices. Hardware makers can also add Alexa s brain into their own devices, so soon you won t need an Echo to consult with Alexa   you could find it in your toaster, your refrigerator or your car.