Master of Go Board Game Is Walloped by Google Computer Program: A Google computer program stunned one of the world s top players on Wednesday in a round of Go, which is believed to be the most complex board game ever created. The match   between Google DeepMind s AlphaGo and the South Korean Go master Lee Se-dol   was viewed as an important test of how far research into artificial intelligence has come in its quest to create machines smarter than humans. Go is a two-player game of strategy said to have originated in China 3,000 years ago. Players compete to win more territory by placing black and white  stones  on a grid measuring 19 squares by 19 squares. The play is more complex than chess, with a far greater possible sequence of moves, and requires superlative instincts and evaluation skills. Because of that, many researchers believed that mastery of the game by a computer was still a decade away. Before the match, Mr. Lee said he could win 5-0 or 4-1, predicting that computing power alone could not win a Go match. Victory takes  human intuition,  something AlphaGo has not yet mastered, he said. But after reading more about the program he became less upbeat, saying that AlphaGo appeared able to imitate human intuition to a certain degree and predicting that artificial intelligence would eventually surpass humans in Go. AlphaGo posed Mr. Lee a unique challenge. In a human-versus-human Go match, which typically lasts several hours, the players  feel  each other and evaluate styles and psychologies, he said.  This time, it s like playing the game alone,  Mr. Lee said on the eve of the match.  There are mistakes humans make because they are humans. If that happens to me, I can lose a match.  Kim Sung-ryong, a South Korean Go master who provided commentary during Wednesday s match, said that AlphaGo made a clear mistake early on, but that unlike most human players, it did not lose its  cool.   It didn t play Go as a human does,  he said.  It was a Go match with human emotional elements carved out.  Mr. Lee said he knew he had lost the match after AlphaGo made a move so unexpected and unconventional that he thought  it was impossible to make such a move. 