With Bet on Japan, Sharp Stumbles: When flat-screen televisions began replacing boxy analog sets in the world s living rooms more than a decade ago, few companies bet bigger on the new technology than Sharp of Japan. The century-old manufacturer, which got its start making belt buckles andmechanical pencils before World War I, defied corporate orthodoxy by building an advanced new display factory in its homeland, while rivals outsourced to cheaper countries. The gamble paid off   for a while. Made-in-Japan Kameyama model TVs, named for the factory, became a hit, and Sharp reaped big profits.  We were winners then,  said Yukihiko Nakata, an engineer who worked for 33 years at Sharp. Those days are over. Sharp is now mired in losses and its future is in doubt. Sharp s plight is a story of missteps by executives who failed to anticipate major shifts in the global electronics industry. China, long the home of cheap manufacturing, has become increasingly sophisticated, making gadgets that can rival Japan s in quality. Rivals elsewhere are challenging Japanese companies on innovation. The industry s center of power has moved away from Japan to places like China, South Korea and Silicon Valley in the United States. Sharp s leaders were slow to adapt, employees and industry experts say. Unwilling to change strategy when business conditions turned against them, they doubled down on investments in increasingly unprofitable businesses, deepening the company s financial distress. As prices of liquid-crystal displays, or LCDs, began falling quickly in the mid-2000s, because of advances in manufacturing and a supply glut in China, Sharp scrambled to keep ahead of cheaper competitors. It developed ever-bigger TV displays and expanded into touch screens for smartphones and tablet computers. But rivals matched it more quickly than executives had anticipated, said Mr. Nakata, who left Sharp a decade ago and is now a professor at Ritsumeikan Asia Pacific University in Japan. Sharp had found a rescuer in a Taiwanese company called Foxconn, which makes gadgets for Apple and others and was offering a $5.5 billion lifeline. But Sharp unexpectedly told its would-be rescuer last week that it could be liable for close to $3 billion in potential costs, according to a person with knowledge of the talks. Foxconn is still examining the sudden disclosure, and it isn t clear whether the Taiwanese company will complete the deal.