Baidu Shares Rise 14% On Revenue Beat: Baidu Inc. posted revenue that topped analysts  estimates as the Chinese Internet search provider s investments in mobile begin to bear fruit and attract advertising. Sales rose 33 percent to 18.7 billion yuan ($2.9 billion) in the December quarter from a year earlier, the Beijing-based company said in a statement. That beat the average analyst estimate of 18.5 billion yuan, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Mobile revenue made up 56 percent of total sales in the quarter, up from 42 percent a year earlier, Baidu said. The company s dominance in search as more users shift to using mobile devices is helping offset the impact of a Chinese economy growing at its slowest pace in 25 years. Chairman Robin Li is also investing in services such as home delivery and online video to drive growth beyond advertising and help Baidu compete with Alibaba and Tencent. Baidu s American depositary receipts rose as much as 14 percent to $179.90 in extended U.S. trading after the results were released. The stock has lost 16 percent this year. Investors are keeping a close eye on Baidu s margins. Tencent, Alibaba and Baidu are now vying for supremacy in an on-demand services industry primed for growth as more people turn to their smartphones or the Web to order food, schedule beauty treatments or hire helpers. Users of such services could rise 29 percent to 400 million by next year, according to Shanghai-based IResearch. The rising cost of competing in online services is spurring consolidation, including the combinations last year of fashion sites Meilishuo and Mogujie, travel-site operators Ctrip and Qunar, and group-buying startups Meituan.com and Dianping.com. Baidu has had to keep spending on its video-streaming service IQiyi and main online commerce site Nuomi to keep pace with Alibaba s and Tencent s expanding rival platforms. Chairman Li and another executive this month offered to buy Baidu s entire 80.5 percent stake in the IQiyi business, a deal that will shore up the search giant s margins while setting up a potential initial public offering for the unit.  These bold steps help to reveal its core operating margins and the earning power of its monopoly-like search engine business,  HSBC Securities analysts led by Chi Tsang wrote in a report. Selling IQiyi could expand Baidu s operating margins to 26 percent this year from 20 percent, even while unabated spending on on-demand services erases about 30 percentage points of profitability, they estimated.