European Tech Scene Begins to Feel Silicon Valley s Woes: At the offices of Deliveroo, a food delivery start-up with headquarters in an upmarket neighborhood here, signs of activity are everywhere. The communal kitchen hums with 20-something developers. A gold-painted scooter, which the co-founder William Shu once used to make deliveries, stands in the center of the office as people bustle about. The frenetic pace belies a more cautious approach that Mr. Shu, 36, a former Morgan Stanley investment banker, has recently started taking at the start-up.Over the last year, Mr. Shu has urged colleagues to be more circumspect with growth plans, forgoing rapid expansion in competitive markets like the United States to focus on places where Deliveroo already has a loyal following. And while the start-up has raised almost $200 million, employs roughly 400 people worldwide and operates in 12 countries, Mr. Shu says profitability   and not just aggressive growth to beat rivals to new markets   is increasingly important as the company moves beyond its British roots. The focus at Deliveroo is symptomatic of a change across many European start-ups. Just as in Silicon Valley, where a number of privately held tech companies have been stung by lower valuations and investor questions about their sustainability, that same unease has now reached Europe s tech community, in a sign that a move away from soaring boom times in start-ups is going global. Driving the pullback are some of the same forces that have caused a change in Silicon Valley s start-up scene. Tech stocks are gyrating because of fears of a global economic slowdown   exacerbated in Europe by the region s migrant crisis and persistent financial problems. Valuations of some start-ups worldwide got ahead of themselves. As a result, venture capitalists in Europe and farther afield are becoming more cautious about funding local start-ups that do not have proven business ideas.  When Silicon Valley sneezes, the rest of the world catches a cold,  said Fred Destin, a partner at the London office of Accel Partners, a venture capital firm.  It s only a matter of time before Europe faces the same issues that we re seeing on the West Coast.  In Europe, that is leading to situations like that of Powa Technologies. Last week , Powa, an e-commerce company based in London, entered into administration, a form of bankruptcy. The start-up had raised $175 million since 2013 but had failed to win enough customers for its mobile shopping technology. Deloitte, which is overseeing the sale of the company s assets, says it is now working to find buyers for the business. Truecaller, a Swedish start-up that had raised around $80 million for its caller ID smartphone application, recently laid off about 20 percent of its staff. A company spokesman declined to comment on the layoffs and said Truecaller remained committed to its business. And SwiftKey, a popular predictive typing smartphone application used by more than 300 million people worldwide, was bought by Microsoft this month for a reported $250 million, which was significantly less than what many of SwiftKey s investors had expected.  You can already see more hesitance and lower valuations,  Christian Reber, founder of 6Wunderkinder, a German start-up bought by Microsoft last year, said in an email.  The market correction will continue, and that s not necessarily a bad thing. 