Tech IPO Freeze Is Sign of Investor Reality Check: The tech IPO market is frozen. Storage vendor Nutanix is further proof. It's been over three months since Square and Match Group debuted, and not a single software or Internet company has followed. Seven of the past 10 technology companies to go public are trading below their offer price, and four are down by at least 20 percent, according to FactSet. Nutanix, which filed its IPO prospectus in December, is holding off on selling shares until the stock market volatility wanes, said sources familiar with the matter. The developer of data center technology that wraps together storage, servers and virtualization was set to go public in late January, but has been advised by its bankers to wait for the market to calm, said the sources, who asked not to be named because the discussions are private. No other high-profile tech companies are publicly on file. Last month, online lender Elevate Credit delayed its IPO due to market conditions, as January marked the worst month for the Nasdaq since 2010. The index is still down 8.5 percent to start the year even after rallying over the past week. For Silicon Valley's financiers, this is all troubling. Big IPOs are their lifeblood. That's how venture investors make outsized profits and justify the billions of dollars they pour annually into start-ups that ultimately go bust or fail to generate returns. Last year should have been a banner year for IPOs. The Nasdaq topped 5,000 for the first time since 2000, and rose for the fourth consecutive year. Investors expressed appetite for risk, bidding up Amazon.comand Netflix, the year's two best large-cap performers. Yet, tech companies went public at the slowest pace since 2009. Instead of IPOs, the highest growth companies were raising mega-rounds of cash in the private market at valuations and revenue multiples that exceeded what public investors were paying. Hedge funds and private equity firms distorted the IPO cycle, putting piles of cash into companies but without rewarding early investors and employees the way public offerings do. Late-stage private financing almost doubled from $8.9 billion in 2013 to $16 billion last year, according to the National Venture Capital Association, with companies including Uber, Airbnb, SpaceX and SoFi each reeling in at least $1 billion. That could mean a painfully dilutive private investment round, selling the business at a loss to some investors or going public at a price below what earlier investors paid. "People just have to get real," said Golden, a managing partner at Revolution Ventures in San Francisco and former director of JPMorgan's technology investment banking practice. "When markets are speaking, we may not like what they're saying but we have to listen."