A New Breed of Trader on Wall Street: Coders With a Ph.D.: While traders at large investment banks watched their screens in horror, at Jane Street, a bunch of Harvard Ph.D.s wearing flip-flops, shorts and hoodies, swung into action with a wave of buy orders. By the end of the day, the E.T.F. shares had retraced their sharp falls.  It s remarkable what they can do,  said Blair Hull, a founder of an electronic trading firm who relies on Jane Street to make a market for his recently started E.T.F.  If you look at who provides this kind of liquidity these days, it s fewer and fewer firms.  It is not only Jane Street, of course. Cantor Fitzgerald, the Knight Capital Group and the Susquehanna International Group have all capitalized on the E.T.F. explosion. And as these firms have grown, so has the demand for a new breed of Wall Street trader   one who can build financial models and write computer code but who also has the guts to spot a market anomaly and bet big with the firm s capital. In a word, these are not your suit-and-tie bond and stock traders of yore, riding the commuter train into Manhattan. They are, instead, the pick of the global brain crop. Here is a small sample of Jane Street s main traders: Tao Wang (doctorate in philosophy and finance from the National University of Singapore), Min Zhu (master s in chemistry, Columbia), Brett Harrison (master s in computer science with a focus in artificial intelligence, Harvard) and Srihari Seshadri (bachelor s in computer science, Carnegie Mellon). Jane Street was founded at the beginning of the previous decade, when a couple of option traders and a computer expert left Susquehanna to start their own business. Harnessing Ph.D.-toting mathematicians to the most powerful computers money can buy has become the accepted way for hedge funds and banks to get a trading edge these days, but Jane Street takes this marriage of high tech and high intellect to a new level. Writing computer code, or at the least being conversant in the firm s program of choice, OCaml, is a requisite for all traders. Indeed, new traders must complete a monthlong OCaml boot camp before they start trading. And to the degree that the super-shy Jane Street does has have a public face, it belongs to its chief technology officer, Yaron Minsky, who givesfrequent lectures at Harvard, M.I.T. and Carnegie Mellon, promoting the firm s ability to manage risk by developing the best software around.