Secondary Shops Flooded With Unicorn Sellers: Until recently, shares of some of the highest-flying unicorn companies have been so hard to come by that secondary buyers have battled each other, not to mention other investors, to acquire some of the startups  common shares. As the fortunes of billion-dollar companies like Evernote have fizzled, however, so has their shareholders  enthusiasm. Says the cofounder of one secondary shop who asked not to be named,  We aren t seeing huge discounts yet in the top 10 names, but people are trying to dump them. It s not just one person calling you about a particular company. It s four.  Says another secondary investor, who also asked not to be identified for this story,  We re seeing an enormous uptick in inbound selling interest.  The situation is changing so quickly that several people with whom we spoke say a number of new characters are now peddling shares of so-called  A List  companies whose shares would have been beyond nearly anyone s reach six months ago.  We re seeing a lot of sketchy people advertising these deals,  says one insider. It didn t used to be like this. Just a year ago, demand for unicorn stock was at an unprecedented level, as were the number of companies establishing billion-dollar valuations for themselves. Unicorn coverage became a cottage industry unto itself, with tech outlets and even data analysis firms poring over which unicorns were the best employers, which companies were positioned to become unicorns, and which venture firms were the best at spotting unicorns early on, among other angles. Alas, by late August, China s market was in a nose-drive, and both late-and early-stage investors began applying the brakes. It wasn t long before non-traditional venture investors like Fidelity and Blackrock were slashing the valuations of some of the startups in the portfolio. A parade of well-reported WSJ pieces about what isn t quite right at high-flying Theranos seemed to cement what many had started to think: That many unicorns really weren t worth what their ambitious investors had settled on. (It didn t help when, last week, the human resources startup Zenefits asked its CEO to resign over sloppy and possibly damning business practices. Ten months ago, the company was valued at $4.5 billion by investors.) Partly, such nervousness owes to employees, some of whom are getting laid off as companies cut back on costs in order to lengthen their runway. These former staffers have to exercise their options within 90 days or else lose them, and they re calling secondary firms for help in figuring out what to do. Some sellers are venture capital firms that thought they could exit some of their investments in 2016 and are now concluding that they can t. (As some readers will know, the clock is always ticking on a venture fund. Most have 10 or 11 years, tops, to invest in startups and get some cash back to investors before losing the confidence of those backers.)