Why Carriers Want to Delete WhatsApp: Two years ago, Mark Zuckerberg took the stage at the Mobile World Congress, an annual industry gathering held in Barcelona, to reassure phone companies that Facebook is their natural ally. He d just announced the $22 billion purchase of the WhatsApp messaging service and was touting an initiative called Internet.org, a low-bandwidth suite of basic services carriers would offer in conjunction with Facebook to get hundreds of millions of people online for the first time. He pledged to  build what is going to be a more profitable model with more subscribers for carriers.  By sticking together, the Facebook founder said, both sides could benefit handsomely.As Zuckerberg prepares to return to Barcelona for this year s MWC on Feb. 22, phone executives say his company looks more like a competitor than a partner. Last year, WhatsApp introduced free voice calls something Facebook already offered and both brands have messaging apps. These so-called over-the-top services cut into mobile carriers  voice and texting revenue because they re offered over the Internet. Some phone companies say Facebook and its ilk are freeloaders that rely on carriers  network infrastructure without spending any money to support it.  WhatsApp is competing with us, not only with messaging but with voice, too,  Telef nica Chief Operating Officer Jos  Mar a  lvarez-Pallete said in August at a telecommunications industry event in the Spanish coastal city of Santander.  The premise should be, same services, same rules.  Not all carriers are lining up against Facebook. The company has more than a dozen partnerships with phone companies from Paraguay to the Philippines. Many of them say teaming up with Facebook is beneficial, because it boosts data usage and has the potential to increase revenue. Millicom International Cellular, a carrier with more than 63 million subscribers in Africa and Latin America, has run promotions in certain markets where it offers free access to Facebook and Internet.org for a couple of months. The company reported last year that 33 percent of subscribers who take part end up upgrading to fee-paying data plans. Similarly, South Africa s No. 3 mobile company, Cell C, offers Facebook and WhatsApp for free in certain subscription packages, because they draw new users.  If we don t innovate around these services and drive value to our customers, we run a higher risk of being left out of the future entirely,  said Cell C Chief Executive Officer Jos  Dos Santos in an e-mail. In the long run, say some industry analysts, WhatsApp and other alternatives shouldn t be seen as a threat to the voice service of phone companies. The typically superior sound quality of the voice calls in the apps uses lots of data.  If carriers price their data offerings correctly, it could drive up revenues,  says John Delaney, an analyst at researcher IDC. And when people graduate to video apps like Skype, data consumption grows exponentially. Says Delaney,  What carriers resent is investing heavily and having others piggyback on their investments. 