Zenefits Scandal Highlights Perils of Hypergrowth at Start-Ups: Zenefits may be among the first of several cautionary tales to highlight a sobering lesson: For a start-up, growing too quickly can produce just as spectacular a failure as growing too slowly. Zenefits is a three-year-old company that makes software for small businesses. In its short life span, it has been called both the most unsexy company in tech, and one of the most promising.Its investors have argued that Zenefits, which makes money by acting as a health-insurance brokerage firm for its customers, has the potential to cut the red tape that small businesses have to battle to provide benefits for their employees.These grand promises were bolstered by Zenefits  early growth. Its annual recurring revenue   an accounting measure preferred by subscription-based software companies   reached $1 million by the end of 2013, the year Zenefits was founded. Recurring revenue hit $20 million by late 2014, and was projected to reach $100 million by late 2015. The exponential growth was catnip to investors. The start-up raised $500 million last year at a $4 billion valuation, one of the largest financing rounds in a year of mega-fundings. At one point, Andreessen Horowitz, Silicon Valley s pre-eminent venture firm, had invested more in Zenefits than in any other company. In total, Zenefits has raised about $581 million. Then, last week, poof. Zenefits announced that Parker Conrad, its co-founder and chief executive, had resigned. In emails to employees, David O. Sacks, the former chief operating officer and new chief executive, explained that Mr. Conrad had overseen a company that had become derelict in its culture and ethics. Zenefits has sought to paint the executive changes as a new beginning. One person close to the company said when Mr. Sacks briefed employees on Mr. Conrad s exit last week, there were celebrations and tears of relief at the San Francisco headquarters of Zenefits.  Yet the story is more complicated than the single instance of a founder s misdeeds. Zenefits  recklessness seems to have been merely the worst symptom of a larger sickness that infected the company, according to investors, former employees and others who worked with the management team (and who all requested anonymity because no one in Silicon Valley wants to be seen as kicking a start-up when it s down).  That sickness: Zenefits was a company consumed by impossible expectations. In return for fund-raising at a stratospheric value, Mr. Conrad promised the moon to investors. Then, to reach the moon, he began to transform a tiny start-up into a mighty rocket ship   only to watch it careen out of control as it stretched to accomplish the impossible. Though many noticed trouble, neither Mr. Conrad, nor the board of directors, nor anyone else in management could afford to stop, take a breath and fix the problems. Growth was the only imperative.