Virtual Reality Companies Look to Science Fiction for Their Next Play: Tech companies have spent years developing better, cheaper devices to immerse people in digital worlds. Yet they are still figuring out how to make virtual reality the kind of technology that people cannot live without. So for inspiration, they are turning to science fiction. At Oculus, a leading virtual reality company, a copy of the popular sci-fi novel  Ready Player One  is handed out to new hires. Magic Leap, a secretive augmented reality start-up, has hired science fiction and fantasy writers. The name of Microsoft s HoloLens headset is a salute to the holodeck, a simulation room from  Star Trek.   Like many other people working in the tech space, I m not a creative person,  said Palmer Luckey, 23, a co-founder of Oculus, which was bought by Facebook for $2 billion in 2014.  It s nice that science fiction exists because these are really creative people figuring out what the ultimate use of any technology might be. They come up with a lot of incredible ideas.  Those ideas are especially relevant now, as some of the biggest technology companies are nearing a major push of a new generation of virtual reality products. In the next few months, virtual reality headsets from Oculus, Sony and HTC go on sale. Venture capital money is pouring into the industry. But how people will interact with the imaginary worlds remains largely unknown territory. And that is where science fiction comes in. Science fiction is shaping the language companies are using to market the technology, influencing the types of experiences made for the headsets and even defining long-term goals for developers.  Science fiction, in simplest terms, sets you free,  said Ralph Osterhout, chief executive of the Osterhout Design Group, which builds augmented reality glasses. Techies do not need any encouragement from their employers to read or watch science fiction, long a pillar of geek culture. The genre has influenced many corners of technology, from smartphones to robotics to space exploration. But there is something unique about the interplay between science fiction and virtual reality, a technology that is essentially an instrument for fooling people into believing they are someplace   and often someone   they are not. Virtual reality is a medium, like television or video games, that can borrow liberally from the virtual worlds experienced by fictional characters. Magic Leap, based in Dania Beach, Fla., and which counts Google as one of its big investors, has gone even further than most companies by hiring three science fiction and fantasy writers on staff. Its most famous sci-fi recruit is Neal Stephenson, who depicted the virtual world of the Metaverse in his seminal 1992 novel  Snow Crash.  In an interview, Mr. Stephenson   whose title is chief futurist   declined to say what he was working on at Magic Leap, describing it as one of several  content projects  underway at the company.