After Zenefits, Will VCs Rein in Their Unicorns  The $4.5 billion benefits startup moved fast and broke things maybe even the law: In a Feb. 1 meeting at its blandly luxurious Sand Hill Road offices, venture firm Andreessen Horowitz urged the chief executive officer of one of its most prized and promising companies to resign. Zenefits makes software designed to simplify and automate such HR tasks as health insurance signups. At three years old, it s valued at $4.5 billion and is one of the fastest-growing business software companies ever. Under founding CEO Parker Conrad, it also made software that allowed its employees to skirt state regulatory requirements, the company now admits. Days after Chief Operating Officer David Sacks gave that information to Lars Dalgaard, an Andreessen partner who sits on Zenefits  board, Conrad was out, say three people familiar with the matter. At Conrad s suggestion, they replaced him with Sacks, a Silicon Valley fixture who s worked at Microsoft and co-founded Yammer, the business chat company. In Zenefits  early days, the people say, Conrad created a deceptive program called  the Macro,  which made it look like employees were watching legally mandated online training when they weren t. Workers who claimed to have completed the training may have been well short of the required 52 hours. Conrad used it himself, the people say. California regulators are investigating Zenefits  use of the Macro, as well as whether its employees had licenses when they started selling insurance. On Feb. 8, Sacks announced Conrad s resignation in an internal e-mail.  For us, compliance is like oxygen. Without it, we die,  Sacks wrote.  Many of our internal processes, controls, and actions around compliance have been inadequate, and some decisions have just been plain wrong. As a result, Parker has resigned.  Conrad declined to comment. Zenefits  financial issues were discussed during the Feb. 1 board meeting. Andreessen co-founder Ben Horowitz, who isn t a Zenefits director, attended. But two people close to the post-Conrad Zenefits say the Macro, not sales misses, was responsible for the CEO s resignation. At the meeting, Conrad tentatively agreed to resign, relinquish his board seat, and make Sacks CEO, say three people close to the company. People close to Conrad now say he s agitated by how Sacks s very public letters to employees have characterized his departure and blamed him for Zenefits  compliance problems. The accusations that unlicensed Zenefits brokers were selling insurance became public on Nov. 25 when BuzzFeed reporter Will Alden began publishing articles on the matter. California and Washington state are investigating Zenefits  sales. The company says it s cooperating with those probes and conducting its own, and it s hired PricewaterhouseCoopers for a third-party assessment. Sacks declined to comment. Two people close to Sacks say he first began to worry about the Macro s possible criminal implications in late January, after receiving new information from the internal investigation. To verify that an insurance sales applicant has completed the 52 hours of training, California requires a signature that carries a perjury charge if violated.