Mattel Unveils ThingMaker, A $300 3D Printer That Lets Kids Make Their Own Toys: Autodesk was tasked with building this app which early testers, including those at Toyland, have already described as  fast,   easy to navigate  and  ridiculously intuitive. Called ThingMaker Design, the app includes a variety of built-in character templates and easy-to-use tutorials that help novices get started. But it also allows for designing characters from scratch, once kids get the hang of things. The toys can be customized with different colors and textures, and will bend and twist in the app so you can get a feel for how they ll work after they ve been printed. The creations can be saved as images to the mobile device s Camera Roll, or uploaded to Google Drive or Dropbox. When a design is complete, the app lets you export the STL print files wirelessly to your at-home printer, whether Mattel s or otherwise. The idea isn t just to print an object and be done, however   instead, kids will print parts that can be assembled to form larger creations, like dolls, robots, dinosaurs, scorpions, skeletons, bracelets or necklaces, for example. What s interesting here is the potential for Mattel to tie into other children s  brands it already owns or licenses and bring them to life through 3D printing. That s something the company says is on the roadmap, saying it will launch  additional design content, including branded options  at a later date. No actual brand names were announced, however, but there were hints that brands like Barbie and Hot Wheels were already being planned. The physical parts are printed in batches then assembled through ball-and-socket joints that snap together. This process can take anywhere from 30 minutes for a small item, up to overnight (e.g. 6 6 to 8 hours) for a larger toy.Mattel says its ThingMaker 3D will use a hard PLA filament, but also hasn t yet announced the colors that will be available. According to reports from the Toy Fair, though, there were some two dozen colors on display. A spokesperson said the company may release other materials in the future.