The Difference Between Facebook and Twitter: Twitter Is Lonely for New Users: The simplest reason Facebook has built a massive gap between the two companies over the past three years is that you don t feel alone on Facebook. It s easy to find connections because everyone you ve ever met and their mother is already on the social network. (Seriously, all my friend s moms have Facebook accounts.) Posting isn t intimidating because you know who s going to see it (your approved friends), and you re almost always guaranteed some kind of feedback on what you share. It may be a  pity Like  from your cousin or your college roommate, but I can t recall ever seeing a Facebook post that didn t have at least one like or comment. I don t care who you are, social validation feels good. Twitter, on the other hand, is lonely, especially for new users. Unless you re a politician or a celebrity, signing up for Twitter probably means spending your first few days on the service (if not weeks or months) with close to zero followers. Tweeting into a black hole is not fun. Finding relevant conversations is not easy, and venturing into strangers  conversations takes courage. It s still too hard to find people to follow when you first sign up on Twitter. The company has made it easier to follow celebrities and media organizations you might want to hear from, but finding people you might actually interact with is a massive challenge the company still hasn t figured out. I see engagement-less tweets all the time. These things hurt Twitter s growth because they push people away before they ever see benefit from the platform. That s why, as of two years ago, nearly a billion people had signed up for Twitter, most of whom never stuck around. (The numbers of deserters is probably much higher today.) The easiest way to fix this problem is to fix Twitter s feed, which does a great job funneling in a constant stream of live updates and a horrible job helping your tweets get seen. I have 11,000 followers, people I assume follow me because they want to see what I m tweeting. I tweeted 22 times last week, and my tweets were seen, on average, 3,500 times apiece. (This includes one super-popular tweet that got lots of views thanks to a retweet from an NFL player with a big following.)