Dyson Is the Apple of Appliances (and Just as Secretive): When Michael Aldred joined the British home electronics maker Dyson two decades ago, he had a simple goal: to quickly build a robotic vacuum cleaner. But Mr. Aldred and his team kept running into roadblocks. Their first attempt, unveiled in 2001, was too clunky for James Dyson, the company s founder. The next prototype involved creating a computer vision system that would allow the machine to skirt independently around furniture; it took more than a decade to perfect. As smartphones became everyday tools, Dyson s robotics team again had to rethink the vacuum cleaner, adding internet connectivity so the machine could send notifications   with a heat map of where it had cleaned   to a mobile device. After a nearly 20-year odyssey, the robot cleaner, priced at an eye-watering $1,000, finally hit stores worldwide last year.  At times, I really asked myself what I had signed up for,  Mr. Aldred said in an interview at Dyson s rural headquarters near the border with Wales.  But James Dyson always told us to focus on the product. Everything else would follow.  Not many consumer electronics brands would spend almost two decades   and tens of millions of dollars   building a vacuum cleaner that retails for more than a top-of-the-line laptop. But combining an almost obsessive eye for design and engineering, the privately held Dyson has cornered the nonglamorous market of high-end vacuum cleaners, lights and hair dryers   and in the process bucked the technology truism that companies rarely make money in the difficult arena of hardware. Even as other hardware brands like Samsung, the smartwatch maker Fitbit and the camera designer GoPro have struggled with physical products because of low-priced copycats and thin profit margins, Dyson has shown an uncanny ability to mint money. Its latest robot cleaner, which is selling briskly, exemplifies that and puts Dyson in rarefied company alongside Apple as one of the few tech companies worldwide to consistently profit from consumer gadgets.