Google Parent To Overtake Apple as World's Most Valuable Company: Google parent Alphabet Inc. is poised to become the world s most valuable company, taking the crown away from Silicon Valley rival Apple Inc. after reporting higher profit and sales fueled by a booming advertising business that s supporting ambitious new projects. Alphabet s shares jumped as much as 9.4 percent in extended trading, putting it on track to surpass Apple s market capitalization of $534.7 billion. The Web company has been inching closer to the iPhone maker as investors lose confidence in Apple s smartphone business and wager that Alphabet has a clearer path to growth. Apple first passed oil giant Exxon Mobil Corp. as the world s most valuable company in 2011. By changing its name and structure last year, Alphabet Chief Executive Officer Larry Page has put the focus on the company s main Web business while giving more insight into investments in new areas such as artificial intelligence, self-driving cars, health technology and fast Internet access. Even though Apple has also been building expertise in cars and AI, the secretive company has kept much of that under wraps. With iPhone sales slowing and China s growth engine sputtering, Apple is on pace to post its first revenue decline in 15 years. Alphabet sales are estimated to climb 16 percent this year. The shares of Mountain View, California-based Alphabet rose to $843 in extended trading from $770.77 at the close in New York, suggesting that the Web company s market capitalization will exceed $550 billion when trading resumes on Tuesday. While Apple generates more than triple the revenue and profit of Google, investors focus more on future prospects than past performance. It s a market truism that s particularly acute in the technology industry, where new breakthroughs can rapidly undercut previously reliable business models. Apple and Alphabet s ascendance to half-trillion-dollar-plus valuations illustrates the premium investors put on U.S. technology companies. Five of the nine most valuable companies in the world are from the industry -- Alphabet, Apple, Microsoft, Facebook and Amazon.com.