Evernote Will Shut Down Market, Its E-Commerce Effort, On Wednesday:  Some more news from Evernote   the note-taking app and startup of the same name   that speaks to the company s current rough patch: today it announced that as of Wednesday at 6pm Pacific, it will shutter Market, the e-commerce platform where it sold Evernote swag and Evernote-integrated office products, in an attempt to create another revenue stream around its more dedicated users. Separately, we ve also learned that there is another senior departure at the company: Ronda Scott, the company s longtime head of comms, is leaving at the end of this week. The moves come at what has been a pretty difficult period for the startup. Developments have included a number of senior departures, including that of the previous, longtime CEO Phil Libin; other underperforming products getting axed, and the startup   once commanding a $1 billion tag   among several whose valuations have more recently been marked down by large fund managers. In a blog post announcing the news today, head of partnerships John Hoye wrote that the move is being made as part of Evernote s restructuring around its core business as a software   not e-commerce   company. Evernote is a startup based around keeping documents in the cloud   and eliminating the need for paper. So when the Market and its focus on notebooks and other products was introduced in 2013, it did feel a little out of left field. A year after that the company said it had sold some $12 million in goods through the store. And today it updated that with other numbers: over 800,000 Evernote Moleskine notebooks, 300,000 Jot Script styluses and nearly 20,000 ScanSnap Evernote Edition scanners. But at the end of the day, it seems those numbers did not really meet the costs of maintaining the operation. So now that Evernote is calling time on all frivolities; trying to get back to the heart of what made the startup so popular in the first place; and driving more premium users   which are up 40% on a year ago, a spokesperson tells me   the decision to shut the Market was probably an easy sell at the startup.