Facebook to Shut Down Parse, Its Platform for Mobile Developers: Facebook acquired Parse, a toolkit and support system for mobile developers, in 2013. At the time, the social network s ambitions were high: Parse would be Facebook s way into one day harnessing developers to become a true cloud business, competing alongside the likes of Amazon, Google and Microsoft. Those ambitions, it seems, have fallen back to earth. On Thursday, Facebook said it plans to shut down Parse, the services platform for which it paid upwards of a reported $85 million. At one point, Facebook was willing to take those risks. When Facebook bought Parse in 2013, Facebook s stock was below its initial public offering price of $38. The company had not grown a robust mobile advertising yet, and Facebook was eager to seek out other lines of business in hopes of future profits, according to two people with knowledge of the company s plans at the time who requested anonymity because they were not authorized to speak for the company. Parse seemed like a good opportunity for expansion. At the time, Internet businesses were in the midst of a major industry change, as users were shifting away from desktop computing and increasingly relying on mobile devices. Parse, the thinking went, could provide Facebook the opportunity to be the foundation of a whole new generation of developers building mobile apps in the age of the smartphone. Things have changed. Facebook is generating record profits and its mobile advertising business is booming; 80 percent of the company s advertising revenue now comes from mobile devices. As Facebook s fortunes have turned, it has shown less interest in pursuing other lines of business outside of what it does best. Instead, the company appears intent on building things that somehow, someday, will feed Facebook s core ad-based business   and those bets are going to have to get bigger and weirder Facebook also would have had to invest untold millions of dollars in capital and, more importantly, engineering talent, to get the Parse business fully off the ground to have a better chance at making a dent in competitors like Amazon, Microsoft and Google.